CHAPTER 1: 
INTRODUCTION
Pathfinder is a fantasy tabletop roleplaying game (RPG) where you and a group of friends 
gather to tell a tale of brave heroes and cunning villains in a world filled with terrifying 
monsters and amazing treasures. More importantly, Pathfinder is a game where your 
character’s choices determine how the story unfolds.
Pathfinder adventures take place in the Age of Lost Omens, a 
perilous fantasy world rife with ancient empires; sprawling 
city-states; and countless tombs, dungeons, and monster 
lairs with hidden secrets and relics. A Pathfinder character’s 
adventures might take them to forsaken underwater ruins, 
haunted gothic crypts, or magical universities in jungle 
cities. A world of endless adventure awaits!
What Is a Roleplaying 
Game?
A roleplaying game is an interactive story where one 
player, the Game Master (GM), sets the scene and 
presents challenges, while other players take the roles 
of player characters (PCs) and attempt to overcome 
those challenges. Danger comes in the form of monsters, 
devious traps, and the machinations of adversarial agents, 
but Pathfinder also provides political schemes, puzzles, 
interpersonal drama, and much, much more.
The game is typically played in a group of four to seven 
players, with one of those players serving as the group’s 
GM. The GM prepares, presents, and presides over the 
game’s world and story, posing challenges and playing 
adversaries, allies, and bystanders alike. As each scene 
flows, each player contributes to the story, responding 
to situations according to the personality and abilities 
of their character. Dice rolls, combined with preassigned 
statistics, add an element of chance to the game and 
determine whether characters succeed or fail at actions.
The Flow of the Game
Pathfinder is played in sessions, during which players 
gather in person or online for a few hours to play the game. 
A complete story can be as short as a single session, often 
referred to as a “one-shot,” or it can stretch for multiple 
sessions, forming a campaign that might last for months 
or even years. If the GM enjoys telling the story and the 
players are entertained, the game can go as long as you like.
A session can be mostly action, featuring battles with 
vile beasts, escapes from fiendish traps, and the completion 
of heroic quests. Alternatively, it could include negotiating 
with a baron for rights to a fort, infiltrating an army of 
lumbering giants, or bargaining with an angel for a strand 
of hair to revive a slain friend. Ultimately, it’s up to you 
and your group to determine what kind of game you’re 
playing, from dungeon exploration to a nuanced political 
drama, or anything in between.
The Players
Everyone involved in a Pathfinder game is a player, 
including the Game Master, but for the sake of simplicity, 
“player” usually refers to participants other than the 
GM. Before the game begins, players invent a history 
and personality for their characters, using the rules to 
determine their characters’ statistics, abilities, strengths, 
and weaknesses. The GM might limit the options available 
during character creation, but the limits are discussed 
ahead of time so everyone can create interesting heroes. 
In general, the only limits to character concepts are the 
players’ imaginations and the GM’s guidelines.
During the game, players describe the actions their 
characters take and roll dice, using their characters’ 
abilities. The GM resolves the outcome of these actions. 
Some players enjoy acting out (or roleplaying) what they 
do as if they were their characters, while others describe 
their characters’ actions as if telling a story. Do whatever 
feels best!
If this is your first experience with a roleplaying game, 
it’s recommended that you take on the role of a player to 
familiarize yourself with the rules and the world.
The Game Master
While the other players create and control their 
characters, the Game Master (or GM) is in charge of 
the story and world. The GM describes all the situations 
player characters experience in an adventure, considers 
how the actions of player characters affect the story, and 
interprets the rules along the way. The Game Master uses 
the rules and advice found in Pathfinder GM Core.
The GM can create a new adventure—crafting a 
narrative, selecting monsters, and assigning treasure 
on their own—or they can instead rely on a published 
adventure, using it as a basis for the session and modifying 
it as needed to accommodate their individual players 
and the group’s style of play. Some even run games that 
combine original and published content, mixing both 
together to form a new narrative.
Being the GM is a challenge, requiring you to adjudicate 
the rules, narrate the story, and juggle other responsibilities. 
But it can also be very rewarding and worth all the work 
required to run a good game. If it’s your first time running 
a game, remember that the only thing that matters is that 
everyone, including you, has a fun time. Everything else 
will come naturally with practice and patience.
THE FIRST RULE
The first rule of Pathfinder is that this game is yours. Use 
it to tell the stories you want to tell, be the character you 
want to be, and share exciting adventures with friends. If 
any other rule gets in the way of your fun, as long as your 
group agrees, you can alter or ignore it to fit your story. The 
true goal of Pathfinder is for everyone to enjoy themselves.
DICE
Pathfinder requires a set of polyhedral dice. Each die 
has a different number of sides—four, six, eight, or more. 
When these dice are mentioned in the text, they’re 
indicated by a “d” followed by the number of sides on the 
die. Pathfinder uses 4-sided dice (or d4), 6-sided dice (d6), 
8-sided dice (d8), 10-sided dice (d10), 12-sided dice (d12), 
and 20-sided dice (d20). If you need to roll multiple dice, 
a number before the “d” tells you how many. For example, 
“4d6” means you should roll four dice, all 6-sided. If a 
rule asks for d%, you generate a number from 1 to 100 by 
rolling two 10-sided dice, treating one as the tens place 
and the other as the ones place.
Gaming Is for All
Whether you’re the GM or a player, participating in a 
tabletop roleplaying game includes a social contract: 
everyone’s gathered together to have fun. For many, 
roleplaying is a way to escape the troubles of everyday life. 
Be mindful of everyone at the table and what they want 
out of the game; when a group gathers for the first time, 
they should talk about what they hope to experience at the 
table, as well as any topics they’d like to avoid. Everyone 
should understand that elements might come up that make 
some players feel uncomfortable or even unwelcome, and 
everyone should agree to respect those boundaries during 
play. That way, everyone can enjoy the game together.
Pathfinder is a game for everyone, regardless of their 
age, gender, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, 
or any other identities and life experiences. It’s the 
responsibility of all of the players, not just the GM, to 
make sure the table is fun and welcoming for everyone.
Tools of Play
In addition to this book, there are a few things you will 
need to play Pathfinder. These supplies can be found at 
your local hobby shop or online at paizo.com.
Character Sheet: Each player will need a character 
sheet to create their character and to record what 
happens to them during play. You can find a character 
sheet in the back of this book and online as a free PDF.
Dice: The players and GM will need at least one set of 
polyhedral dice, although most participants bring their 
own. Six-sided dice are quite common, but all the dice in 
the set can be found at hobby game stores or online. See 
the Dice sidebar for more on the different kinds of dice 
and how they are discussed in the text.
Adventure: Every table needs an adventure to play, 
whether it’s designed by the GM or found in a published 
resource. You can find a variety of exciting adventures 
and even entire Adventure Path campaigns at paizo.com.
Pathfinder Monster Core: From terrifying dragons to 
mischievous gremlins, monsters are a common threat that 
the PCs might face, and each type has its own statistics and 
abilities. These can be found in the Pathfinder Monster 
Core, an invaluable book for GMs. Monster statistics can 
also be found online for free at paizo.com/prd.
Maps and Miniatures: The chaos of combat can be 
difficult to imagine, so many groups use maps to represent 
the battlefield. These maps are marked with a 1-inch grid, 
and each square represents 5 feet in the game. Miniatures 
and illustrated tokens called pawns are used to represent 
the characters and the adversaries they face.
Additional Accessories: There are many additional 
accessories you can add to your game to enhance the 
experience, including tools that help you track turns in 
combat, decks of cards for referencing common rules, 
digital character-creation tools, virtual tabletops for online 
play, and even background music and sound-effect sets.
Basics of Play
Before creating your first character or adventure, you 
should understand a number of basic concepts used in 
the game. New concepts are presented in bold to make 
them easy to find, but this chapter is only an introduction 
to the basics of play. The complete game rules are defined 
in later chapters, and the Glossary and Index in the back 
of this book will help you find specific rules you need.
Defining Characters
In Pathfinder, the players take on the role of player 
characters (PCs), while the Game Master portrays 
nonplayer characters (NPCs) and monsters. While PCs 
and NPCs are both important to the story, they serve very 
different purposes in the game. PCs are the protagonists—
the narrative is about them—while NPCs and monsters 
are allies, contacts, adversaries, and villains. That said, 
PCs, NPCs, and monsters share several characteristics.
Level is one of the most important statistics of the game, 
as it conveys the approximate power and capabilities of 
every individual creature. PCs range in level from 1st, at 
the start of the character’s adventuring career, to 20th, 
the very height of power. As the characters overcome 
challenges, defeat foes, and complete adventures, they 
accumulate Experience Points (XP). Every time a character 
amasses 1,000 XP, they go up a level, gaining new abilities 
so they can take on even greater challenges. A 1st-level PC
might face off against a giant rat or a group of bandits, 
but at 20th level, that same character might be able to 
destroy an entire city with a single spell.
In addition to level, characters are defined by attributes, 
which measure a character’s raw potential and are used 
to calculate most of their other statistics. There are six 
attributes in the game. Strength represents a character’s 
physical might, while Dexterity represents agility and 
the ability to avoid danger. Constitution indicates a 
character’s overall health and well-being. Intelligence
represents raw knowledge and problem-solving ability, 
while Wisdom measures a character’s insight and the 
ability to evaluate a situation. Finally, Charisma indicates 
charm, persuasiveness, and force of personality. Attribute 
modifiers for ordinary creatures range from as low as –5 
to as high as +5, with +0 representing average human 
capabilities. High-level characters can have attribute 
modifiers that range much higher than +5. An attribute 
modifier above the average increases your chance of 
success at tasks related to the attribute, while those below 
the average decrease your chance.
Your player character is also defined by some key 
choices you make. The first choice is a PC’s ancestry, 
representing the character’s parents and heritage, such as 
human, elf, or goblin. Next up is the PC’s background, 
which describes their upbringing, from lowly street urchin 
to wealthy noble. Finally, and most importantly, a PC’s 
class defines the majority of their aptitudes and abilities, 
like a wizard’s command of powerful arcane spells or a 
druid’s power to transform into a fearsome beast!
In addition to these key choices, player characters 
also have a number of feats—individual abilities selected 
during character creation and as the character increases in 
level. Every feat has a type to denote where its explanation 
can be found (for example, elf feats can be found in the elf 
ancestry) and its theme (wizard feats, for example, grant 
abilities that deal with spells). Finally, characters have 
skills that measure their ability to hide, swim, bargain, 
and perform other common tasks.
Creating a Narrative
Characters and their choices create the story of 
Pathfinder, but how they interact with each 
other and the world around them is governed 
by rules. So, while you might decide that 
your character undertakes an epic journey 
to overcome terrifying foes and make 
the world a safer place, your character’s 
chance of success is determined by their abilities, 
the choices you make, and the roll of 
the dice.
The Game Master determines the 
premise and background of most 
adventures, although character histories 
and personalities certainly play a part. 
Once a game session begins, the players 
take turns describing what their characters attempt 
to do, while the GM determines the outcome, with the 
table working together to create the story. The GM also 
describes the environment, other characters’ actions, and 
events. For example, the GM might announce that the 
characters’ hometown has been regularly attacked by 
marauding trolls. The characters might track the trolls to 
a nearby swamp—only to discover that the trolls were 
driven from their swamp by a fearsome dragon! The PCs 
then have the choice of taking on an entire tribe of trolls, 
the dragon, or both. Whatever they decide, their success 
depends on their choices and the die rolls they make 
during play.
A single narrative—including the setup, plot, 
and conclusion—is called an adventure. A series of 
adventures creates an even larger narrative, called a 
campaign. An adventure might take several sessions to 
complete, whereas a campaign might take months or 
even years!
THE WORLD AS A PARTICIPANT
Aside from characters and monsters, the world of 
Pathfinder itself can be a force at the table and in the 
narrative. While the presence of the larger world can 
sometimes be an obvious hazard, such as when a 
powerful storm wreaks the countryside, the world can 
also act in subtle, small ways. Traps and treasures are 
just as important in many tales as cunning beasts. To 
help you understand these game elements, many of them 
use the same characteristics as characters and monsters. 
For example, most environmental hazards have a level, 
which indicates how dangerous they are, and the level of 
a magic item gives you a sense of its overall power and 
impact on a story.
Playing the Game
In a Pathfinder game, three modes of play determine the 
pacing of each scene in the story. Most of your character’s 
time is spent in exploration, uncovering mysteries, solving 
problems, and interacting with other characters. The 
Age of Lost Omens abounds with danger, however, and 
characters often find themselves in an encounter, fighting 
savage beasts and terrifying monsters. Finally, time moves 
quickly when the characters enjoy downtime, a respite 
from the world’s troubles and a chance to rest and train 
for future expeditions. Throughout an adventure, game 
play moves between these three modes many times, as 
needed for the story. The more you play the game, the 
more you’ll see that each mode has its own play style, but 
moving from mode to mode has few hard boundaries.
During the game, your character will face situations 
where the outcome is uncertain. A character might need 
to climb a sheer cliff, track down a wounded chimera, or 
sneak past a sleeping dragon, all of which are dangerous 
tasks with a price for failure. In such cases, the acting 
character (or characters) will be asked to attempt a check
to determine whether or not they succeed. A check is 
usually made by rolling a single 20-sided die (a d20) and 
adding a number based on the relevant attribute. In such 
cases, rolling high is always good.
Once a check is rolled, the GM compares the result to a 
target number called the difficulty class (DC) to determine 
the outcome. If the result of the check is equal to or greater 
than the DC, the check is successful. If it is less, the check is 
a failure. Beating the DC by 10 or more is referred to as a 
critical success, which usually grants an especially positive 
outcome. Similarly, failing the check by 10 or more is a 
critical failure (sometimes called a fumble). This sometimes 
results in additional negative effects. You also often score a 
critical success by rolling a 20 on the die when attempting 
a check (before adding anything). Likewise, rolling a 1 on 
the die when attempting a check often results in a critical 
failure. Note that not all checks have a special effect on a 
critical success or critical failure and such results should be 
treated just like an ordinary success or failure instead.
For example, in pursuit of the wounded chimera, your 
character might find the path blocked by a fast-moving 
river. You decide to swim across, but the GM declares this 
a dangerous task and asks you to roll an Athletics skill 
check (since swimming is covered by the Athletics skill). On 
your character sheet, you see that your character has a +8 
modifier for such checks. Rolling the d20, you get an 18, for 
a total of 26. The GM compares this to the DC (which was 
16) and finds that you got a critical success (since the result 
exceeded the DC by 10). Your character swims quickly 
across the river and continues the pursuit, drenched but 
unharmed. Had you gotten a result less than 26 but equal 
to or greater than 16, your character would have made it 
halfway across the river. Had your result been less than 16, 
your character might have been swept downriver or, worse, 
been pulled under the current and begun to drown!
Checks like this are the heart of the game and are rolled 
all the time, in every mode of play, to determine the outcome 
of tasks. While the roll of the die is critical, the statistic you 
add to the roll (called a modifier) often makes the difference 
between success and failure. Every character is made up of 
many such statistics governing what the character is good 
at, each consisting of a relevant attribute modifier plus a 
proficiency bonus, and sometimes modified further by 
other factors, such as bonuses or penalties from gear, spells, 
feats, magic items, and other special circumstances.
Proficiency is a simple way of assessing your character’s 
general level of training and aptitude for a given task. 
It is broken into five different ranks: untrained, trained, 
expert, master, and legendary. Each rank grants a different 
proficiency bonus. If you’re untrained at a statistic, your 
proficiency bonus is +0—you must rely solely on the raw 
potential represented by your attribute modifier. If your 
proficiency rank for a statistic is trained, expert, master, 
and legendary, your bonus equals your character’s level plus another number based on the rank (2, 4, 6, and 8, 
respectively). Proficiency ranks are part of almost every 
statistic in the game.
Exploration
Most of the time, your character will explore the world, 
interact with characters, travel from place to place, and 
overcome challenges. This is called exploration. Game play 
is relatively free-form during exploration, with players 
responding to the narrative whenever they have an idea of 
what to do next. Leaving town via horseback, following the 
trail of a marauding orc tribe, avoiding the tribe’s scouts, and 
convincing a local hunter to help in an upcoming fight are 
all examples of things that might occur during exploration.
Throughout this mode of play, the GM asks the players 
what their characters are doing as they explore. This is 
important in case a conflict arises. If combat breaks out, 
the tasks the PCs undertook while exploring might give 
them an edge or otherwise inform how the combat begins.
Encounters
In the course of your adventures, there will be times when 
a simple skill check is not enough to resolve a challenge—
when fearsome monsters stand in your character’s way 
and the only choice is to do battle. In Pathfinder, this is 
called an encounter. Encounters usually involve combat, 
but they can also be used in situations where timing is 
critical, such as during a chase or when dodging hazards.
While exploration is handled in a free-form manner, 
encounters are more structured. The players and GM roll 
initiative to determine who acts in what order. The encounter 
occurs over a number of rounds, each of which is equal to 
about 6 seconds of time in the world of the game. During 
a round, each participant takes a turn. When it’s your 
turn to act, you can use up to three actions. Most simple 
things, such as drawing a weapon, moving a short distance, 
opening a door, or swinging a sword, use a single action to 
perform. There are also activities that use more than a single 
action to perform; these are often special abilities from your 
character’s class and feats. One common activity in the game 
is casting a spell, which usually uses two actions.
Free actions, such as dropping an object, don’t count 
toward the three actions you can take on your turn. 
Finally, each character can use up to one reaction during a 
round. This special type of action can be used even when 
it’s not your turn, but only in response to certain events, 
and only if you have an ability that allows it. Rogues, for 
example, can select a feat that lets them use their reaction 
to dodge an incoming attack.
Attacking another creature is one of the most common 
actions in combat, and is done by using the Strike action. 
This requires an attack roll—a kind of check made against 
the Armor Class (AC) of the creature you’re attacking. 
Strikes can be made using weapons, spells, or even parts 
of a creature’s body, like a fist, claw, or tail. You add a 
modifier to this roll based on your proficiency rank with 
the type of attack you’re using, your attributes, and any 
other bonuses or penalties based on the situation. The 
target’s AC is calculated using their proficiency rank in 
the armor they’re wearing and their Dexterity modifier. 
An attack deals damage if it hits, and rolling a critical 
success results in the attack dealing double damage!
You can use more than one Strike action on your turn, 
but each additional attack after the first becomes less 
accurate. This is reflected by a multiple attack penalty
that starts at –5 on the second attack, but increases to –10 
on the third. There are many ways to reduce this penalty, 
and it resets at the end of your turn.
If your character finds themself the target of a magical 
lightning bolt or the victim of a venomous snake bite, you 
will be called on to attempt a saving throw, representing 
your character’s ability to avoid danger or otherwise 
withstand an assault to their mind or body. A saving throw 
is a check attempted against the DC of the spell or special 
ability targeting your character. There are three types of 
saving throws, and a character’s proficiency in each says a 
great deal about what they can endure. A Fortitude saving 
throw is used when your character’s health or vitality is 
under attack, such as from poison or disease. A Reflex
saving throw is called for when your character must 
dodge away from danger, usually something that affects 
a large area, such as the scorching blast of a fireball spell. 
Finally, a Will saving throw is often your defense against 
spells and effects that target your character’s mind, such 
as a charm or confusion spell. For all saving throws, a 
success lessens the harmful effect, and scoring a critical 
success usually means your character escapes unscathed.
Attacks, spells, hazards, and special abilities frequently 
either deal damage to a character or impose one or more 
conditions—and sometimes both. Damage is subtracted 
from a creature’s Hit Points (HP)—a measure of health—
and when a creature is reduced to 0 HP, it falls unconscious 
and may die! A combat encounter typically lasts until one 
side has been defeated, and while this can mean retreat or 
surrender, it most often happens because one side is dead or 
dying. Conditions can hinder a creature for a time, limiting 
the actions they can use and applying penalties to future 
checks. Some conditions are even permanent, requiring a 
character to seek out powerful magic to undo their effects.
Downtime
PCs don’t have to spend every waking moment adventuring. 
They might also recover from wounds, plan future conquests, 
or pursue a trade. In Pathfinder, this is called downtime, and 
it allows time to pass quickly while characters work on longterm tasks or objectives. Most characters can practice a trade 
in downtime, earning a few coins, but those with the right 
skills can also spend time crafting, creating new gear or even 
magic items. Characters can also use downtime to retrain, 
replacing one character choice with another to reflect their 
evolving priorities. They might also research a problem, 
learn new spells, or even run a business or kingdom!
KEY TERMS
There are a number of important terms that you’ll need to know as you create your first character or adventure. Some of the 
most important terms mentioned on previous pages are also included here for reference
Action
During encounters, each creature gets three actions during 
their turn. These actions are spent to attack, interact with 
objects, move, and use special abilities. Actions available to 
all characters can be found in Chapter 8.
Ancestry
An ancestry is the broad family of people that a character 
belongs to. Ancestry determines a character’s starting Hit 
Points, languages, senses, and Speed, and it grants access to 
ancestry feats. Ancestries can be found in Chapter 2.
Armor Class (AC)
All creatures in the game have an Armor Class. This score 
represents how hard it is to hit and damage a creature. It 
serves as the Difficulty Class for hitting a creature with 
an attack.
Attack
When a creature tries to harm another creature, it makes 
a Strike or uses some other attack action. Most attacks are 
Strikes made with a weapon, but a character might Strike 
with their fist, grapple or shove with their hands, or attack 
with a spell.
Attribute Modifier
Each creature has six attribute modifiers: Strength, 
Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma. 
Each of these numbers represents a creature’s raw potential 
and general training. Attributes are described in full later in 
this chapter.
Background
A background represents what a character experienced 
before they took up the life of an adventurer. Each 
background grants a feat and training in one or more skills. 
You can read more about backgrounds in Chapter 2.
Bonuses and Penalties
Bonuses and penalties apply to checks and certain statistics. 
There are several types of bonuses and penalties. If you 
have more than one bonus of the same type, you use only 
the highest bonus. Likewise, you use only the worst penalty 
of each type.
Check
When a character attempts an action where success is 
uncertain, they may roll a check. This is a roll of one twentysided die plus the named proficiency bonus. For example, 
a Perception check would add your Perception proficiency.
Class
A class represents the adventuring profession chosen by 
a character. A character’s class determines most of their 
proficiencies, grants the character Hit Points each time they 
gain a new level, and gives access to a set of class feats. 
Classes appear in Chapter 3.
Condition
An ongoing effect that changes how a character can act, or 
that alters some of their statistics, is called a condition. The 
rules for the basic conditions used in the game can be found 
in the Conditions Appendix at the back of this book.
Currency
The most common currencies in the game are gold pieces 
(gp) and silver pieces (sp). One gp is worth 10 sp. In addition, 
1 sp is worth 10 copper pieces (cp), and 10 gp are worth 1 
platinum piece (pp). Characters begin play with 15 gp (or 
150 sp) to spend on equipment.
Feat
A feat is an ability you can select for your character due to 
their ancestry, background, class, general training, or skill 
training. Some feats grant the ability to use special actions, 
while others make your existing actions more effective.
Game Master (GM)
The Game Master is the player who adjudicates the rules 
and narrates the various elements of the Pathfinder story 
and world that the other players explore. The GM uses the 
rules found in Pathfinder GM Core.
Golarion
Pathfinder is set on the planet Golarion during the Age of 
Lost Omens. It is an ancient world with a rich diversity of 
people and cultures, exciting locations to explore, and deadly 
villains. More information on the Age of Lost Omens, the 
world of Golarion, and its deities can be found on page 30.
Hit Points (HP)
Hit Points represent the amount of punishment a creature 
can take before it falls unconscious and begins dying. 
Damage decreases Hit Points on a 1-to-1 basis, while healing 
restores Hit Points at the same rate.
Initiative
At the start of an encounter, all creatures involved roll for 
initiative to determine the order in which they act. The 
higher the result of its roll, the earlier a creature gets to act. 
Initiative and combat are described in Chapter 8.
Level
A level is a number that measures something’s overall 
power. Player characters have a level, ranging from 1st 
to 20th, representing their level of experience. Monsters, 
NPCs, hazards, diseases, and poisons have levels ranging 
from –1 to 30 that measure the danger they pose. An item’s 
level, usually within the range of 0 to 20 but sometimes 
higher, indicates its power and suitability as treasure.
Nonplayer Character (NPC)
A nonplayer character, controlled by the GM, interacts with 
players and helps advance the story.
Perception
Perception measures your character’s ability to notice 
hidden objects or unusual situations, and it usually 
determines how quickly the character springs into action in 
combat. It is described in full in Chapter 9.
Player Character (PC)
This is a character created and controlled by a player.
Proficiency
Proficiency is a system that measures a character’s aptitude 
at a specific task or quality, and it has five ranks: untrained, 
trained, expert, master, and legendary. Proficiency gives 
you a bonus that’s added when determining the following 
modifiers and statistics: AC, attack rolls, Perception, saving 
throws, skills, and the effectiveness of spells. If you’re 
untrained, your proficiency bonus is +0. If you’re trained, 
expert, master, or legendary, your proficiency bonus equals 
your level plus 2, 4, 6, or 8, respectively.
Rarity
Some elements of the game have a rarity to denote how 
often they’re encountered in the game world. Rarity 
primarily applies to equipment and magic items, but spells, 
feats, and other rules elements also have a rarity. If no rarity 
appears in the traits of an item, spell, or other game element, 
it’s of common rarity. Uncommon options are available only 
to those who have special training, grew up in a certain 
culture, or come from a particular part of the world. This can 
be explained with an “Access” entry, explaining criteria for 
characters to choose it as a common option. Rare options 
are almost impossible to find and are usually given out only 
by the GM, while unique ones are literally one-of-a-kind 
in the game. The GM might alter the way rarity works or 
change the rarity of individual items to suit the story they 
want to tell.
Roleplaying
Describing a character’s actions, often while acting from the 
perspective of the character, is called roleplaying. When a 
player speaks or describes action from the perspective of a 
character, they are “in character.”
Round
A round is a period of time during an encounter in which 
all participants get a chance to act. A round represents 
approximately 6 seconds in game time.
Saving Throw (Save)
When a creature is subject to a dangerous effect that must 
be avoided, it attempts a saving throw to mitigate the effect. 
You attempt a saving throw automatically—you don’t have 
to use an action or a reaction. Unlike for most checks, the 
character who isn’t acting rolls the d20 for a saving throw, 
and the creature who is acting provides the DC.
There are three types of saving throws: Fortitude (to 
resist diseases, poisons, and physical effects), Reflex (to 
evade effects a character could quickly dodge), and Will (to 
resist effects that target the mind and personality).
Skill
A skill represents a creature’s ability to perform certain 
tasks that require instruction or practice. All characters are 
trained in certain skills due to their background and class. 
Skills are fully described in Chapter 4. Each skill includes 
ways anyone can use that skill even if untrained, as well as 
uses that require a character to be trained in the skill.
Speed
Speed is the distance a character can move using a single 
action, measured in feet.
Spell
Spells are magical effects created by performing mystical 
incantations and gestures known only to those with special 
training or inborn abilities. Casting a spell is an activity that 
usually uses 2 actions. Each spell specifies what it targets, 
the actions needed to cast it, its effects, and how it can be 
resisted. If a class grants spells, the basics of that ability 
are provided in the class description in Chapter 3, while the 
spells themselves are detailed in Chapter 7.
Spells have ranks ranging from 1st to 10th, which measure 
their power; characters and monsters can usually cast only 
a certain number of spells of any given rank.
Trait
A trait is a keyword that conveys additional information 
about a rules element, such as which ancestry a feat belongs 
to or the rarity of an item. Often, a trait indicates how other 
rules interact with an ability, creature, item, or another rules 
element that has that trait. 
All the traits used in this book appear in the Glossary and 
Index beginning on page 452.
Turn
During the course of a round, each creature takes a single 
turn according to initiative. A creature can typically use up 
to three actions during its turn.
Example of Play
The following example is presented to give you a better idea 
of how the game of Pathfinder is played. In this adventure, 
Erik is the GM. Luis is playing Valeros, a daring human 
fighter; Shay is playing Merisiel, a deadly elven rogue, and 
Jessica is taking on the role of Kyra, Merisiel’s wife and 
a compassionate human cleric of Sarenrae. The group has 
chosen to investigate disappearances in a local mine.
Erik: The entrance to the mine is a simple iron 
ladder leading down into the darkness of 
a reinforced shaft. The sound of creaking 
metal echoes from below.
Merisiel (Shay): The miners would need to have lights 
on when working. If it’s dark, something 
must have gone wrong.
Kyra (Jessica): I call upon the sacred light of Sarenrae 
and cast a golden light spell ahead of us.
Erik: Radiance spills forth, illuminating 
further down the ladder. It descends 
about 20 feet before ending in a tunnel. 
There’s nothing but packed earth and 
wooden reinforcement beams directly 
below you, and you can’t see any further.
Merisiel (Shay): I have low-light vision, so I should go 
first to make sure it’s safe. I put away my 
daggers so I can stealthily climb down 
the ladder, looking for traps as I go.
Erik: Roll your Stealth check, but looking for 
traps is a secret check, so I’ll roll for that. 
What’s your Perception modifier?
Merisiel (Shay): I have a +6 to Perception, and I rolled an 
18 on Stealth.
Erik rolls a d20 behind his GM screen, hidden from the 
players’ view, and gets a 17 on the die for a total of 23. 
There are no traps in the area that Merisiel is looking, but 
the result is more than enough to see a frightened kobold 
hiding behind a mine cart. Due to Merisiel’s Stealth check, 
the kobold does not see her descend the ladder.
Erik: You descend into a 30-foot-wide mining 
tunnel, with wooden beams reinforcing 
the walls and ceilings. You don’t see any 
traps, but a reptilian face with large eyes 
peeks out from behind a mine cart. At 
a closer look, it’s a kobold in a leather 
miner jacket. 
Valeros (Luis): I’ll follow Merisiel down the ladder.
Kyra (Jessica): Me too.
Erik: As the sound of your footsteps on the 
iron ladder echoes through the mine, 
the kobold jumps out in panic! She 
takes a few steps further into the mine, 
then stops, as if she’s more frightened of 
whatever is deeper in than of you.
Kyra (Jessica): Oh no! Poor kobold!
Merisiel (Shay): Can someone calm her down? I’m 
terrible with people!
Valeros (Luis): I have a +3 Diplomacy. I’ll call out to 
her.
Erik: What do you say?
Valeros (Luis): “Hello friend! Don’t be scared, we’re 
here to help!” I rolled a 15 on my 
Diplomacy check.
Erik: Okay! The kobold seems startled, but 
then runs to you for safety. “Oh! Thank 
Torag you’re here!”
Merisiel (Shay): Torag? She ought to thank us, or at least 
Sarenrae.
Kyra (Jessica): That’s sweet, but you don’t need to scold 
her for my sake.
Valeros (Luis): I ask the kobold who they are and what 
happened here.
Erik: She says that her name is Krinek, and 
she’s one of the miners who works 
here. “We were looking for the miners 
who went missing, but when we found 
them, they were wrong and rotten! They 
attacked us and I ran away!”
Valeros (Luis): That doesn’t sound good. I tell Krinek 
to get to safety, then advance down the 
tunnel with my sword and shield at the 
ready. 
Kyra (Jessica): I’ll keep beside him, since I have the 
light, and draw my blade. 
Erik: As you proceed into the tunnel, you 
come across signs of a struggle. Half 
dried blood stains the earth, a trail of 
heavy smears suggesting that something 
or someone was bleeding here and then 
was dragged further into the mine. You 
think you can hear something faintly 
moving nearby.
Valeros (Luis): That’s probably not good. I vault over 
the mine cart to investigate. 
Kyra (Jessica): I’ll go with him. If someone is hurt, 
they’ll need my help.
Merisiel (Shay): I’m going to draw a dagger and hide 
behind a mine cart. 
Erik: Merisiel takes cover while the two of you 
advance. As you approach, you begin to 
smell the faint but unmistakable scent 
of rot. Kyra’s light suddenly illuminates 
a hulking humanoid figure with glassy 
eyes, its flesh rotting and beginning to 
peel from its bones. Despite its state 
of advanced decay, it moves toward 
you with a malevolent force. Roll for 
initiative! Valeros and Kyra need to roll 
Perception, while Merisiel should roll 
Stealth.Everyone rolls for their initiative. Luis gets a total of 13. 
Jessica rolls better for Kyra, getting a total of 14. Shay 
uses Stealth for Initiative, because Merisiel was hiding at 
the start of the fight, and rolls a 17 for a total of 25! Erik 
rolls for the creature, getting a 12. Erik records all these 
totals, putting everyone in order from highest to lowest.
Erik: Looks like Merisiel gets to act first. 
Whatever that thing is, you’re pretty sure 
it doesn’t know you are there.
Merisiel (Shay): Just the way I like it! For my first action, 
I want to move closer.
Erik: You can get to within 15 feet of it with 
one Stride action.
Merisiel (Shay): Excellent. For my next action, I’m going 
to throw my dagger at it, and then use 
my final action to draw another dagger.
Shay rolls a 13 and adds 8, due to Merisiel’s skill at thrown 
daggers, for a total of 21, but the range means the attack 
takes a –2 penalty for a result of 19. Erik consults his 
notes to learn that the monster has an AC of 15.
Erik: That’s a hit! Go ahead and roll damage.
Merisiel (Shay): Okay, and I get to add extra damage due 
to sneak attack.
Rogues have the ability to deal extra damage to foes that 
haven’t acted yet in an encounter. This extra damage also 
applies to attacks against enemies that are distracted. 
Shay rolls 1d4 for the dagger and 1d6 for the sneak attack. 
Because Merisiel has the thief rogue’s racket, Shay adds 
Merisiel’s +4 Dexterity to damage, getting a total of 9.
Erik: It hisses as the blade sinks into its 
shoulder. As it does, its flesh pops open, 
pus oozing in rivulets down its arm. 
Next up is Kyra!
Kyra (Jessica): Gross! Okay, this creature looks undead, 
do I know anything about that?
Erik: You can think back to your cleric 
training to Recall Knowledge, spending 
one action. It’s a secret check, so what’s 
your Religion modifier?
Kyra (Jessica): It’s +7.
Erik rolls a 12, adding Kyra’s +7 with Religion to get a total 
of 19 against the DC of 16.
Erik: Your initial suspicion was correct. 
This is a zombie. This one appears to 
be larger because it was enhanced by 
magic. Because you already had a hunch 
this was a zombie, why don’t you ask 
another question?
Kyra (Jessica): Does it have any notable weaknesses?
Erik: Yes, it’s vulnerable to both healing magic 
and slashing weapons.
Merisiel (Shay): Augh! If I’d known, I would have slashed 
with my dagger!
Merisiel’s daggers have a trait called versatile (slashing), 
which allow her to deal slashing damage instead of 
piercing if she chooses. Unfortunately, she didn’t know 
that doing so would be more effective when she acted!
Kyra (Jessica): I am going to spend my last two actions 
to cast runic weapon on Valeros’s sword. 
It gives him a +1 bonus to attack rolls 
and another die of damage. “Valeros, get 
that thing!”
Valeros (Luis): I do what she says and get it! I spend one 
action to raise my shield and use my final 
two actions to make a Sudden Charge!
Sudden Charge is a fighter feat that lets Valeros move 
twice and attack at the end of his movement, all for only 
two actions. He rolls to attack and the die result is a 20.
Valeros (Luis): A natural 20! With my bonus added, 
that must be a critical success!
Erik: Your blade hits the putrid creature right 
in the neck, dealing double damage! 
However, as you do so, pus explodes 
out of the wound once more. Roll a 
Fortitude save.
Luis gets to roll 2d8 because of Kyra’s spell. He rolls a 9 
total on those, then adds 4 because of Valeros’s Strength 
modifier. Because it’s a critical success, he then doubles the 
damage. Erik adds an extra 10 damage from the zombie’s 
slashing weakness, for a total of 36 of its 70 Hit Points. 
Valeros (Luis): Aw, beans. Natural 1 on the save.
Erik: And that’s a critical failure, go figure. 
You are sickened 1, which gives you a –1 
penalty to d20 rolls and AC. 
Valeros (Luis): I agree with Kyra, super gross. Did my 
strike kill it?
Erik: I’m afraid not. It lunges at you, 
indifferent to its grievous wounds, trying 
to bludgeon you with its fists!
Erik rolls an attack roll for the zombie brute, getting an 7 
on the die and adding 11 from its statistics for a total of 18. 
Valeros normally has an AC of 18. The attack would hit even 
if Valeros weren’t sickened, but it misses because he Raised 
his Shield during his turn, increasing his AC by 2.
That is the end of the first round of combat. The second 
round begins immediately after this, using the same 
initiative order as before. The fight is far from over..
Using This Book
While this chapter is here to teach you the basics of 
Pathfinder, the rest of this rulebook serves as a reference 
manual during play, and it is organized to make finding 
the rule you need as easy as possible. Rules are grouped 
together in chapters, with the early chapters focusing on 
character creation. The following is a summary of what 
you can expect to find in each chapter.
Chapter 1: Introduction
This introduction is designed to help you understand the 
basics of Pathfinder. This chapter also includes the rules for 
building and leveling up a character, as well as an example 
of the character creation process. The chapter ends with an 
introduction to the Age of Lost Omens and its gods.
Chapter 2: Ancestries & Backgrounds
The rules for ancestries and heritages representing the 
Age of Lost Omens are in this chapter, including their 
ancestry feat options. Backgrounds are at the end of this 
chapter, along with a section about languages, as these 
are most often influenced by your choice of ancestry.
Chapter 3: Classes
This chapter contains the rules for 8 classes. Each class 
entry includes guidelines on playing the class, rules for 
building and advancing a character of that class, sample 
builds, and all of the class feats available to members 
of that class. This chapter also includes rules for animal 
companions and familiars, which can be acquired by 
members of several different classes. At the end of this 
chapter are the rules for archetypes—special options 
available to characters as they increase in level. These 
rules allow a character to dabble in the abilities of 
another class or concept.
Chapter 4: Skills
The rules for using skills are presented in this chapter, 
and they detail what a character can do with a given 
skill, based on that character’s proficiency rank. 
Ancestry, background, and class can define some of 
a character’s skill proficiencies, and each character 
can also select a few additional skills to reflect their 
personality and training.
Chapter 5: Feats
As a character advances in level, they gain additional 
feats to represent their growing abilities. General feats 
and skill feats (which are a subset of general feats) are 
presented in this chapter.
Chapter 6: Equipment
Armor, weapons, and other gear can all be found in this 
chapter, along with the price for services, cost of living, 
and animals (such as horses, dogs, and pack animals).
Chapter 7: Spells
This chapter starts with rules for casting spells, 
determining their effects, and negating foes’ spells 
(called counteracting). After that, the spell lists for each 
spellcasting tradition are included, making it easy to 
quickly find spells by their rank. Next are rules for every 
spell, presented in alphabetical order. Following the 
spell descriptions are all of the focus spells—special 
spells granted by specific class abilities and feats. 
While most spells appear on multiple spell lists, 
focus spells are granted only to members of a 
specific class and are grouped together by class 
for ease of reference. Finally, at the end of the 
chapter are rules for rituals, complicated and risky 
spells that any character can attempt.
Chapter 8: Playing the Game
This important chapter contains the universal rules 
needed to play Pathfinder, including rules for the 
various modes of play, the basic actions that every 
character can perform, the rules for combat, and the 
rules for death and dying. Every player should be 
familiar with this chapter, especially the GM.
Appendices
The back of this book has an appendix with the rules 
for all of the conditions that you will find in the game. 
This section also includes a blank character sheet, and 
an index with a comprehensive glossary of common 
terms and traits that you’ll encounter in the game.
Format of Rules
Throughout this rulebook, you will see formatting 
standards that might look a bit unusual at first. These 
standards are in place to make the rules elements in this 
book easier to recognize.
The names of specific statistics, skills, feats, actions, 
and some other mechanical elements in Pathfinder are 
capitalized. This way, when you see the statement “a 
Strike targets Armor Class,” you know that both Strike 
and Armor Class are referring to rules.
If a word or a phrase is italicized, it’s describing a spell 
or a magic item. This way, when you see the statement 
“the door is sealed by lock,” you know that the word 
denotes the lock spell, rather than a physical item.
Pathfinder also uses many terms that are typically 
expressed as abbreviations, like AC for Armor Class, DC 
for Difficulty Class, and HP for Hit Points. If you’re ever 
confused about a game term or an abbreviation, you can 
always turn to the Glossary and Index, beginning on 
page 452, and look it up.
Understanding Actions
Characters and their adversaries affect the world of 
Pathfinder by using actions and producing effects. This 
is especially the case during encounters, when every 
action counts. When you use an action, you generate 
an effect. This effect might be automatic, but sometimes 
actions necessitate that you roll a die, and the effect is 
based on what you rolled.
Throughout this book, you will see special icons to 
denote actions.
[one-action]Single Actions
Single actions use this symbol: [one-action]. They’re the simplest, 
most common type of action. You can use three single 
actions on your turn in an encounter, in any order you 
see fit.
[reaction] Reactions
Reactions use this symbol: [reaction]. These actions can be used 
even when it’s not your turn. You only get one reaction 
per encounter round, and you can use it only when its 
specific trigger is fulfilled. Often, the trigger is another 
creature’s action.
[free-action] Free Actions
Free actions use this symbol: [free-action]. Free actions don’t 
require you to spend any of your three single actions or 
your reaction. A free action might have a trigger like a 
reaction does. If so, you can use it just like a reaction—
even if it’s not your turn. However, you can use only 
one free action per trigger, so if you have multiple free 
actions with the same trigger, you have to decide which 
to use. If a free action doesn’t have a trigger, you use it 
like a single action, just without spending any of your 
actions for the turn.
Activities
Activities are special tasks that you complete by spending 
one or more of your actions together. Usually, an activity 
uses two or more actions and lets you do more than a 
single action would allow. You have to spend all the 
actions an activity requires for its effects to happen. 
Spellcasting is one of the most common activities, as most 
spells take more than a single action to cast.
Activities that use two actions use this symbol: [two-actions]. 
Activities that use three actions use this symbol: [three-actions]. A 
few special activities, such as spells you can cast in an 
instant, use a free action or a reaction.
All tasks that take longer than a turn are activities. 
If an activity is meant to be done during exploration, it 
has the exploration trait. An activity that takes a day or 
more of commitment and that can be done only during 
downtime has the downtime trait.
Reading Rules
This book contains many rules elements that give 
characters new and interesting ways to respond to 
situations in the game. All characters can use the basic 
actions found in Chapter 9, but an individual character 
often has special rules that empower them to do things 
most other characters can’t. Most of these options are 
feats, which are gained by making certain choices at 
character creation or when a character advances in level.
Regardless of the game mechanic they convey, rules 
elements are always presented in the form of a stat block, 
a summary of the rules necessary to bring the monster, 
character, item, or other rules element to life during play. 
Where appropriate, rules presentations are introduced 
with an explanation of their format. For example, the 
Ancestry section of Chapter 2 contains rules for the eight 
ancestries in this book, and an explanation of the ancestry 
sections appears at the beginning of that chapter.
The general format for stat blocks is shown here. 
Entries are omitted from a stat block when they don’t 
apply, so not all rule elements have all of the entries given 
below. Actions, reactions, and free actions each have the 
corresponding icon next to their name to indicate their 
type. An activity that can be completed in a single turn 
has a symbol indicating how many actions are needed to 
complete it; activities that take longer to perform omit 
these icons. If a character must attain a certain level 
before accessing an ability, that level is indicated to the 
right of the stat block’s name. Rules also often have 
traits associated with them (traits appear in the Glossary 
and Index).
Spells, alchemical items, and magic items use a similar 
format, but their stat blocks contain a number of unique 
elements, such as the possible magical traditions for a 
spell (see Chapter 7 for more on reading spells).
ACTION OR FEAT NAME [one-action] LEVEL
TRAITS
Prerequisites Any minimum attributes, feats, proficiency ranks, 
and so forth you must have to select this rules element are 
here. Feats also have a level prerequisite, listed above.
Frequency The limit on how often you can use the ability.
Trigger Reactions and some free actions have triggers that 
must be met before they can be used.
Requirements Sometimes you must have a certain item or be 
in a certain circumstance to use an ability.
This section describes the effects or benefits of a rules element. 
If the rule is an action, it explains what the effect is or what you 
must roll. If it’s a feat that modifies an existing action or grants a 
constant effect, the benefit is explained here.
Special Any special qualities of the rule are explained in this 
section. Usually this section appears in feats you can select 
more than once, explaining what happens when you do.
Sometimes an ability will grant multiple actions or an 
action in addition to other benefits. These are condensed 
into a shorter format using the same categories. 
Action Name [one-action] (traits) Frequency how often it can be 
used; Trigger when a reaction or free action can be used; 
Requirements some actions require specific circumstances, 
listed here; Effect this section explains how the ability 
changes the world.
CHARACTER CREATION
Unless you’re the GM, the first thing you need to do when playing Pathfinder is create your 
character. It’s up to you to imagine your character’s past experiences, personality, and 
worldview, and this will set the stage for your roleplaying during the game. You’ll use the 
game’s mechanics to determine your character’s ability to perform various tasks and use 
special abilities during the game.
This section provides a step-by-step guide for creating 
a character using the Pathfinder rules, preceded by a 
guide to help you understand attribute modifiers. These 
modifiers are a critical part of your character, and you 
will be asked to make choices about them during many 
of the following steps. The steps of character creation 
are presented in a suggested order, but you can complete 
them in whatever order you prefer.
Many of the steps on pages 18–27 instruct you to 
fill out fields on your character sheet. The character 
sheet is shown on pages 22–23; you can find a copy 
in the back of this book or on paizo.com as a free 
PDF. The character sheet is designed to be easy to use 
when you’re actually playing the game, but creating a 
character happens in a different order, so you’ll move 
back and forth through the character sheet as you go 
through the character creation process. Additionally, 
the character sheet includes every field you might need, 
even though not all characters will have something to 
put in each field. If a field on your character sheet is 
not applicable to your character, you can just leave that 
field blank.
All the steps of character creation are detailed on the 
following pages; each is marked with a number that 
corresponds to the sample character sheet on pages 
22–23, showing you where the information goes. If the 
field you need to fill out is on the third or fourth page 
of the character sheet, which aren’t shown, the text will 
tell you.
If you’re creating a higher-level character, it’s a good 
idea to begin with the instructions here, then turn to 
page 29 for instructions on leveling up characters.
OVERVIEW
When you turn the page, you’ll see a visual representation 
of ancestries and classes that provides at-a-glance 
information for players looking to make the most of their 
starting attribute modifiers. In the ancestries overview 
on page 20, each entry lists which attribute modifiers it 
boosts, and also indicates any attribute flaws the ancestry 
might have. You can find more about attribute boosts and 
flaws in Attribute Modifiers on page 19.
The summaries of the classes on page 21 list each class’s 
key attribute—the attribute modifier used to calculate 
the potency of many of their class abilities. Characters 
receive an attribute boost in their key attribute when you 
choose their class. This summary also lists one or more 
secondary attribute modifiers important to members of 
that class.
A character’s background also affects their attribute 
modifiers, though there’s more flexibility in the attribute 
boosts from backgrounds than in those from classes. For 
descriptions of backgrounds, see pages 84–88
Step 1:
Create a Concept
What sort of hero do you want to play? The answer to
this question might be as simple as “a brave warrior,”
or as complicated as “the child of elven wanderers,
raised in a city dominated by humans and devoted to
Sarenrae, goddess of the sun.” Consider your character’s
personality, sketch out a few details about their past, and
think about how and why they adventure. You’ll want
to peruse Pathfinder’s available ancestries, backgrounds,
and classes. The summaries on pages 20–21 might help
you match your concept with some of these basic rule
elements. Before a game begins, it’s also a good idea for
the players to discuss how their characters might know
each other and how they’ll work together throughout
the course of their adventures.

Each player takes a different approach to creating a
character. Some want a character who will fit well into
the story, while others look for a combination of abilities
that complement each other mechanically. You might
combine these two approaches. There is no wrong way!
Once you have a good idea of the character you’d like
to play, move on to Step 2 to start building your character.
Ancestry, Background, Class, or Details
If one of Pathfinder’s character ancestries, backgrounds,
or classes particularly intrigues you, it’s easy to build a
character concept around these options. The summaries of
ancestries and classes on pages 20–21 give a brief overview
of these options (full details appear in Chapters 2 and 3,
respectively). Each ancestry also has several heritages that
might refine your concept further, such as a gnome with
a stronger connection to fey magic or one who comes
from the underground, or an arctic or woodland elf. Some
heritages, known as versatile heritages, can even be applied
to any ancestry; for instance, mortals with divine influence
can be born to any ancestry as nephilim. Additionally, the
game has many backgrounds to choose from, representing
your character’s upbringing, their family’s livelihood, or
their earliest profession. Backgrounds are detailed later in
Chapter 2, beginning on page 84.
Building a character around a specific ancestry,
background, or class can be a fun way to interact with the
world’s lore. Would you like to build a typical member
of your character’s ancestry or class, as described in the
relevant entry, or would you prefer to play a character
who defies commonly held notions about their people?
For example, you could play a dwarf with a wide-eyed
sense of wonder and a zest for change, or a performing
rogue capable of amazing acrobatic feats but with little
interest in sneaking about.
You can draw your concept from any aspect of a
character’s details. You can use roleplaying to challenge
not only the norms of Pathfinder’s fictional world, but
even real-life societal norms. Your character might
challenge gender notions, explore cultural identity, have
a disability, or any combination of these suggestions.
Your character can live any life you see fit.
Faith
Perhaps you’d like to play a character who is a devout
follower of a specific deity. Pathfinder is a rich world with
myriad faiths and philosophies spanning a wide pantheon,
from Cayden Cailean, the Drunken Hero of good-hearted
adventuring; to Desna, the Song of Spheres and goddess
of dreaming and the stars; to Iomedae, the Inheritor,
goddess of honor, justice, and rulership. Pathfinder’s
major deities appear on pages 35–39. Your character
might be so drawn to a particular faith that you decide
they should be a cleric of that deity; they might instead
be a lay worshipper who applies their faith’s teachings to
daily life, or simply the child of devout parents.
THE SIX ATTRIBUTE MODIFIERS

One of the most important aspects of your character is their attribute modifiers. These numbers represent your character’s
raw potential, and they influence nearly every other statistic on your character sheet. Determining your attribute modifiers
is not done all at once, but instead happens over several steps during character creation.
Attribute modifiers are split into two main groups: physical and mental. Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution are physical
attribute modifiers, measuring your character’s physical power, agility, and stamina. In contrast, Intelligence, Wisdom, and
Charisma are mental attribute modifiers and measure your character’s learned prowess, awareness, and force of personality.
Excellence in an attribute modifier improves the checks and statistics related to that ability, as described below. When imagining
your character, you should also decide what attribute modifiers you want to focus on to give you the best chance at success.
Strength

Strength measures your character’s physical power. Strength
is important if your character plans to engage in hand-to-hand
combat. Your Strength modifier gets added to melee damage
rolls and determines how much your character can carry.

Dexterity

Dexterity measures your character’s agility, balance, and
reflexes. Dexterity is important if your character plans
to make attacks with ranged weapons or use stealth to
surprise foes. Your Dexterity modifier is also added to your
character’s AC and Reflex saving throws.
Constitution

Constitution measures your character’s health and stamina.
Constitution is important for all characters, especially those
who fight in close range. Your Constitution modifier is added
to your Hit Points and Fortitude saving throws.

Intelligence

Intelligence measures how well your character can learn
and reason. A high Intelligence allows your character to
analyze situations and understand patterns, and it means
they can become trained in additional skills and might be
able to master additional languages.
Wisdom

Wisdom measures your character’s common sense,
awareness, and intuition. High Wisdom helps your character
detect hidden things and resist mental effects. Your Wisdom
modifier is added to your Perception and Will saving throws.

Charisma

Charisma measures your character’s personal magnetism
and strength of personality. A high Charisma modifier helps
you build relationships and influence the thoughts and
moods of others with social skills.

THE SIX ATTRIBUTE MODIFIERS

One of the most important aspects of your character is their attribute modifiers. These numbers represent your character’s
raw potential, and they influence nearly every other statistic on your character sheet. Determining your attribute modifiers
is not done all at once, but instead happens over several steps during character creation.
Attribute modifiers are split into two main groups: physical and mental. Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution are physical
attribute modifiers, measuring your character’s physical power, agility, and stamina. In contrast, Intelligence, Wisdom, and
Charisma are mental attribute modifiers and measure your character’s learned prowess, awareness, and force of personality.
Excellence in an attribute modifier improves the checks and statistics related to that ability, as described below. When imagining
your character, you should also decide what attribute modifiers you want to focus on to give you the best chance at success.

ATTRIBUTE MODIFIER OVERVIEW

Each attribute modifier starts at +0, representing the human average, but as you make character choices, you’ll adjust these
modifiers by applying attribute boosts, which increase an attribute modifier, and attribute flaws, which decrease an attribute
modifier. As you build your character, remember to apply attribute modifier adjustments when making the following decisions.
Ancestry: Each ancestry provides attribute boosts, and sometimes an attribute flaw. If you are taking any voluntary
flaws, apply them in this step (see the sidebar on page 24).
Background: Your character’s background provides two attribute boosts.
Class: Your character’s class applies an attribute boost to their key attribute: the attribute modifier most important for that class.
Four Free Boosts: After the other steps, you apply four more attribute boosts to attributes of your choice to finalize your
starting attribute modifiers.
Attribute Boosts

An attribute boost normally increases an attribute
modifier’s value by 1. However, if the attribute modifier
to which you’re applying an attribute boost is already +4
or higher, instead mark “partial boost” on the character
sheet for that attribute. If the attribute already has a
partial boost invested in it, increase the modifier by 1 and
uncheck the box. At 1st level, a character can never have
any attribute modifier that’s higher than +4.
When your character receives an attribute boost, the
rules indicate whether it must be applied to a specific
attribute modifier, to one of a limited list, or whether it is a
“free” attribute boost that can be applied to any attribute
modifier of your choice. Dwarves, for example, receive an

attribute boost to their Constitution modifier and their
Wisdom modifier, as well as one free attribute boost,
which can be applied to any other attribute.
When you gain multiple attribute boosts at the same
time, you must apply each one to a different modifier.
This means you can’t apply a partial boost to an attribute
modifier and apply another boost simultaneously to
increase it.

Attribute Flaws

Attribute flaws are not nearly as common in Pathfinder as
attribute boosts. If your character has an attribute flaw—
likely from their ancestry—you decrease that attribute
modifier by 1.
DWARF ELF GNOME GOBLIN

Dwarves are a short, stocky
people who are often stubborn,
fierce, and devoted. Page 42.

Elves are a tall, long-lived people
with a strong tradition of art and
magic. Page 46.

Gnomes are short and hardy folk,
with an unquenchable curiosity
and eccentric habits. Page 50.

Goblins are a short, scrappy,
energetic people who have spent
millennia maligned and feared.
Page 54.

Attribute Boosts*

Constitution, Wisdom, Free Dexterity, Intelligence, Free Constitution, Charisma, Free Dexterity, Charisma, Free

Attribute Flaw*

Charisma Constitution Strength Wisdom

*Any character can choose to take two free boosts instead of the listed boosts and flaws (page 24).

ANCESTRIES

HALFLING HUMAN LESHY ORC

Halflings are a short, resilient
people who exhibit remarkable
curiosity and humor. Page 58.

Humans are diverse and
adaptable people with wide
potential and deep ambitions.
Page 62.

Leshies are immortal nature
spirits placed in small plant
bodies, seeking to experience the
world. Page 66.

Orcs are proud, strong people
with hardened physiques who
value physical might and glory in
combat. Page 70.

Attribute Boosts*

Dexterity, Wisdom, Free Two free attribute boosts Constitution, Wisdom, Free Two free attribute boosts

Attribute Flaw*

Strength — Intelligence —

VERSATILE HERITAGES
These heritages can be chosen for a member of any ancestry.

CHANGELING NEPHILIM MIXED ANCESTRY

Changelings are the children of malevolent
hags, born with occult magic and the
potential to hear a psychic Call. Page 76.

Nephilim are influenced by the divine magic
of the Outer Sphere, often with fiendish or
celestial features. Page 78.

Create a character, such as a half-elven
aiuvarin or an orc-blooded dromaar, who
comes from multiple ancestries. Page 82.
BARD CLERIC DRUID FIGHTER

The bard distracts foes and
inspires allies with skilled
performances and secrets of
the occult. Page 94.

The cleric calls on the power
of a deity to cast spells that
can heal allies or harm foes.
Page 108.

The druid uses the magic of
the natural world to bolster
allies and strike down
enemies. Page 122.

The fighter is a master
of weapons, martial
techniques, and powerful
attack combinations.
Page 136.

Key Attribute**

Charisma Wisdom Wisdom Dexterity or Strength

Secondary Attributes

Constitution, Dexterity Charisma, Constitution Constitution, Dexterity Constitution
CLASSES

RANGER ROGUE WITCH WIZARD

The ranger is a master of
using their surroundings,
traps, and animal allies to
harry enemies. Page 152.

The rogue is a multitalented
master of skulduggery who
strikes when enemies least
expect it. Page 164.

The witch casts spells and
hexes learned through a
powerful familiar from a
mysterious patron. Page 178.

The wizard is a scholar
whose reservoirs of arcane
knowledge powers their
wondrous spells and abilities.
Page 192.

Key Attribute**

Dexterity or Strength Dexterity or other Intelligence Intelligence

Secondary Attributes

Constitution, Wisdom Charisma, Constitution Dexterity, Wisdom Dexterity, Constitution
Your Allies
You might want to coordinate with other players when
forming your character concept. Your characters could
have something in common already; perhaps they are
relatives, or travelers from the same village, or maybe
they met each other during a different adventure in
their backstory. You might discuss mechanical aspects
with the other players, creating characters whose
combat abilities complement each other. In the latter
case, it can be helpful for a party to include characters
who deal damage, characters who can absorb damage,
and characters who can heal and support their allies.
However, Pathfinder’s classes include a lot of choices,
and there are many options for building each type of
character, so don’t let these broad categories restrict
your decisions.

CHARACTER SHEET

Once you’ve developed your character’s concept, jot
down a few sentences summarizing your ideas under the
Notes section on the third page of your character sheet.
Record any of the details you’ve already decided, such
as your character’s name, on the appropriate lines on the
first page.

Step 2:
Start Building
Attribute Modifiers
At this point, you need to start building your character’s
attribute modifiers. See the overview of attribute
modifiers on page 19 for more information about these
important aspects of your character and an overview of
the process.
Your character’s attribute modifiers each start at +0,
and as you select your ancestry, background, and class,
you’ll apply attribute boosts, which increase a modifier
by 1, and attribute flaws, which decrease a modifier by
1. At this point, just note a +0 in each attribute modifier
and familiarize yourself with the rules for attribute
boosts and flaws on page 19. This is also a good time
to identify which attribute modifiers will be most
important to your character; for instance, if you want
to play a dashing and nimble archer, you might want
to focus on a character with a high Dexterity attribute
(to ensure they’re good with ranged weapons) who
also has a bit of Charisma (to fast-talk the authorities
if they get caught). See The Six Attribute Modifiers
on page 19 and the class summaries on page 21 for
more information.
Step 3:
Select an Ancestry
Select an ancestry for your character. The ancestry
summaries on page 20 provide an overview of Pathfinder’s
core ancestry options, and each is fully detailed in Chapter
2. Ancestry determines your character’s size, Speed, and
languages, and contributes to their Hit Points. Each also
grants attribute boosts and attribute flaws to represent
the ancestry’s basic capabilities.
You’ll make four decisions when you select your
character’s ancestry:
• Pick the ancestry itself.
• Select a heritage from those available within that
ancestry, further defining the traits your character
was born with.
• Assign any free attribute boosts and decide if you
are taking any voluntary flaws.
• Choose an ancestry feat, representing an ability
your hero learned at an early age.
CHARACTER SHEET

Write your character’s ancestry and heritage in the
appropriate space at the top of your character sheet’s
first page. Adjust your attribute modifiers, adding 1 to an

attribute modifier if you gained an attribute boost from
your ancestry, and subtracting 1 from an attribute modifier
if you gained an attribute flaw from your ancestry. Note
the number of Hit Points your character gains from their
ancestry—you’ll add more to this number later. Finally, in
the appropriate spaces, record your character’s size, Speed,
and languages. If your character’s ancestry provides them
with special abilities, write them in the appropriate spaces,
such as darkvision in the Senses section on the first page
and innate spells on the fourth page. Write the ancestry
feat you selected in the Ancestry Feat section on your
character sheet’s second page.
Step 4:
Pick a Background
Your character’s background might represent their
upbringing, an aptitude they’ve been honing since
their youth, or another aspect of their life before they
became an adventurer. Character backgrounds appear in
Chapter 2, starting on page 84. They typically provide
two attribute boosts (one that can be applied to either
of two specific attribute modifiers, and one that is free),
training in a specific skill, training in a Lore skill, and a
specific skill feat.
ALTERNATE ANCESTRY BOOSTS
The attribute boosts and flaws listed in each ancestry
represent general trends or help guide players to create
the kinds of characters from that ancestry most likely
to pursue the life of an adventurer. However, ancestries
aren’t a monolith. You always have the option to replace
your ancestry’s listed attribute boosts and attribute flaws
entirely and instead select two free attribute boosts
when creating your character.
OPTIONAL: VOLUNTARY FLAWS
Sometimes, it’s fun to play a character with a major
flaw regardless of your ancestry. You can elect to take
additional attribute flaws when applying the attribute
boosts and attribute flaws from your ancestry. This is
purely for roleplaying a highly flawed character, and you
should consult with the rest of your group if you plan to
do this! You can’t apply more than one flaw to any single
attribute modifier.
Record your character’s background in the space at the
top of the first page of your character sheet. Adjust your
attribute modifiers, adding 1 to an attribute modifier if
you gained an attribute boost from your background.
Record the skill feat the background provides in the Skill
Feat section of your character sheet’s second page. On
the first page, check the “T” box next to the name of
the specific skill and for one Lore skill to indicate your
character is trained, then write the name of the Lore skill
granted by your background.
Step 5:
Choose a Class
At this point, you need to decide your character’s class.
A class gives your character access to a suite of heroic
abilities, determines how effectively they fight, and governs
how easily they can shake off or avoid certain harmful
effects. Each class is fully detailed in Chapter 3, but the
summaries on page 21 provide an overview of each.
You don’t need to write down all of your character’s
class features yet. You simply need to know which
class you want to play, which determines the attribute
modifiers that will be most important for your character.

CHARACTER SHEET

Write your character’s class in the space at the top of the
first page of your character sheet, then write “1” in the
Level box to indicate that your character is 1st level. Next
to the attribute modifiers, note the class’s key attribute
modifier, and add 1 to that attribute modifier from the
attribute boost the class provides. Don’t worry about
recording the rest of your character’s class features and
abilities yet—you’ll handle that in Step 7.

Step 6:
Finish Attribute
Modifiers
Now that you’ve made the main mechanical choices
about your character, it’s time to finalize their attribute
modifiers. Do these two things:
• First, make sure you’ve applied all the attribute
boosts and attribute flaws you’ve noted in previous
steps (from your ancestry, background, and class).
• Then, apply four free attribute boosts to your
character’s attribute modifiers. Choose a different
attribute modifier for each and increase that
attribute modifier by 1.
Remember that each attribute boost adds 1 to the
base modifier of +0, and each attribute flaw subtracts 1.
You should have no attribute modifier lower than –1 or
higher than +4.

CHARACTER SHEET

Write your character’s starting attribute modifiers in the
box provided for each on the first page.
Step 7:
Record Class Details
Now, record all the benefits and class features that your
character receives from the class you’ve chosen. While
you’ve already noted your key attribute modifier, you’ll
want to be sure to record the following class features.
• To determine your character’s total starting Hit Points,
add together the number of Hit Points your character
gains from their ancestry (chosen in Step 3) and the
number of Hit Points they gain from their class.
• The Initial Proficiencies section of your class entry
indicates your character’s starting proficiency ranks
in a number of areas. Choose which skills your
character is trained in and record those, along
with the ones set by your class. If your class would
make you trained in a skill you’re already trained in
(typically due to your background), you can select
another skill to become trained in.
• See the class advancement table in your class entry
to learn the class features your character gains at 1st
level. You already chose an ancestry, background,
and free attribute boosts, but these are listed in the
table as a reminder. Some class features require you
to make additional choices, such as selecting spells.

CHARACTER SHEET

Write your character’s total Hit Points on the first page of
your character sheet. Use the proficiency fields (the boxes
marked “T,” “E,” “M,” and “L”) on your character sheet to
record your character’s initial proficiencies in Perception,
saving throws, and the skills granted by their class; mark
“T” if your character is trained, or “E” if your character
is an expert. Indicate which additional skills you chose
for your character to be trained in by marking the “T”
proficiency box for each skill you selected. Likewise,
record your character’s armor proficiencies in the Armor
Class section at the top of the first page and their weapon
proficiencies at the bottom of the first page. Record all
other class feats and abilities on the second page. Don’t
worry yet about finalizing any values for your character’s
statistics—you’ll handle that in Step 9.
Step 8:
Buy Equipment
At 1st level, your character has 15 gold pieces (150
silver pieces) to spend on armor, weapons, and other
basic equipment. Your character’s class lists the types
of weapons and armor with which they are trained (or
better!). Their weapons determine how much damage
they deal in combat, and their armor influences their
Armor Class; these calculations are covered in more
detail in Step 10.
You’ll also want equipment like rope, torches, and other
traveling gear, and maybe even an alchemical healing item
or two if you get into a pinch. For more on the available
equipment and how much it costs, see Chapter 6—there
are even starting loadouts listed for each class on page
268 for quicker selection and to give you a sense of what
items and equipment certain classes prioritize.

CHARACTER SHEET

Once you’ve spent your character’s starting wealth,
calculate any remaining gp, sp, and cp they might still
have and write those amounts in the Inventory section
on the second page. Record your character’s weapons
in the Melee Strikes and Ranged Strikes sections of the
first page, depending on the weapon, and the rest of their
equipment in the Inventory section on the second page.
You’ll calculate specific numbers for melee Strikes and
ranged Strikes with the weapons in Step 9 and for AC
when wearing that armor in Step 10.
Step 9:
Calculate Modifiers
With most of the big decisions for your character
made, it’s time to calculate the modifiers for each of the
following statistics. If your proficiency rank for a statistic
is trained, expert, master, or legendary, your bonus equals
your character’s level plus another number based on the
rank (2, 4, 6, and 8, respectively). If your character is
untrained, your proficiency bonus is +0.
Perception
Your character’s Perception modifier measures how alert
they are, and is equal to their proficiency bonus in Perception
plus their Wisdom modifier. See page 404 for more.
SPELLS AND SPELLCASTING
Many characters can learn a few cantrips or focus spells,
but the bard, cleric, druid, witch, and wizard all gain
spellcasting—the ability to cast a wide variety of spells.
If your character’s class grants spells, you should take
time during Step 7 to learn about the spells they know
and how to cast them. The fourth page of the character
sheet provides space to note your character’s magic
tradition and their proficiency rank for their spell attack
modifier and spell DC. It also gives space to record the
spells in your character’s repertoire or spellbook. Each
class determines how and which spells a character can
cast, but the spells themselves and detailed rules for
spellcasting are located in Chapter 7.
Saving Throws
For each kind of saving throw, add your character’s
Fortitude, Reflex, or Will proficiency bonus (as
appropriate) plus the attribute modifier associated with
that kind of saving throw. For Fortitude saving throws, use
your character’s Constitution modifier. For Reflex saving
throws, use your character’s Dexterity modifier. For Will
saving throws, use your character’s Wisdom modifier.
Then add in any bonuses or penalties from abilities, feats,
or items that always apply (but not modifiers, bonuses,
or penalties that apply only in certain situations). Record
this number on the line for that saving throw.
Melee Strikes and Ranged Strikes
Next to where you’ve written your character’s melee and
ranged weapons, calculate the modifier to Strike with
each weapon and how much damage that Strike deals.
The modifier for a Strike is equal to your character’s
proficiency bonus with the weapon plus an attribute
modifier (usually Strength for melee Strikes and Dexterity
for ranged Strikes). You also add any item bonus from
the weapon and any other permanent bonuses or
penalties. You also need to calculate how much damage
each weapon’s Strike deals. Melee weapons usually add
your character’s Strength modifier to damage rolls, while
ranged weapons might add some or all of your character’s
Strength modifier, depending on the weapon’s traits. See
the weapon entries in Chapter 6 for more information.
Skills
In the second box to the right of each skill on your
character sheet, there’s an abbreviation to remind you
of the attribute modifier for that skill. For each skill in
which your character is trained, add your proficiency
bonus for that skill (typically +3 for a 1st-level character)
to the indicated attribute’s modifier, as well as any other
applicable bonuses and penalties, to determine the total
modifier for that skill. For skills your character is untrained
in, use the same method, but your proficiency bonus is +0.

CHARACTER SHEET

For Perception and saving throws, write your proficiency
bonus and the appropriate attribute modifier in the boxes
provided, then record the total modifier in the large space.
Record the proficiency bonuses, attribute modifiers, and
total modifiers for your melee Strikes and ranged Strikes
in the box after the name of each weapon, and record the
damage for each, along with the traits for that attack. For
skills, record the attribute modifier and proficiency bonus
in the appropriate box for each skill, and then write the
total skill modifiers in the spaces to the left.
If your character has any modifiers, bonuses, or
penalties from feats or abilities that always apply, add
them into the total modifiers. For ones that apply only in
certain situations, note them next to the total modifiers.
Step 10:
Finishing Details
Now add the following details to your character sheet.
There are boxes for edicts and anathema, deity, age, and
gender and pronouns on page 3 of the character sheet.
Edicts and Anathema
You can choose to take on edicts and anathema to
reinforce your character’s beliefs and guide how they’d
react in certain situations. Edicts are behaviors your
personal philosophy or code encourages. Anathema are
the opposite: actions contrary to your point of view and
violations of your personal code. For example, you might
declare that you follow an edict to keep detailed records
of any dungeon you explore, or you might consider it
anathema to refuse to help a friend in need.
For most characters, these are entirely optional, though
it’s best to consider taking some on as you create your
character to hone in on how they think. If you follow a
deity, you might take inspiration from the edicts and
anathema listed for them on pages 35–39. Ancestry entries
list edicts and anathema prevalent among their societies.
Required Edicts and Anathema
Certain classes have anathema tied to them; for example,
a cleric gains the edicts and anathema of their deity.
Violating these can cause you to lose some class abilities
until you atone or make amends (as described in the class).
Changing Edicts and Anathema
Edicts and anathema can change during play as a
character’s beliefs evolve, or as you realize that your
character’s actions reflect a different set of values than
you once thought. In most cases, you can just change a
relevant edict or anathema and continue playing.
Deity
Write down the deity your character worships, if any.
Clerics must worship a deity. See pages 35–39 for more
about Pathfinder’s deities.
Age
Decide your character’s age and note it on the third
page of the character sheet. The description for your
character’s ancestry in Chapter 2 gives some guidance on
the age ranges of members of that ancestry. Beyond that,
you can play a character of whatever age you like. There
aren’t any mechanical adjustments to your character
for being particularly old, but you might want to take
it into account when considering your starting attribute
modifiers and future advancement. Particularly young
characters can change the tone of some of the game’s
threats, so it’s recommended that characters are at least
young adults.
Gender and Pronouns
Characters of all genders are equally likely to become
adventurers. Record your character’s gender, if
applicable, and their pronouns on the third page of the
character sheet.
Class DC
A class DC sets the difficulty for certain abilities granted
by your character’s class. This DC equals 10 plus their
proficiency bonus for their class DC (+3 for most
1st-level characters) plus the modifier for the class’s key
attribute modifier.

Hero Points
Your character usually begins each game session with
1 Hero Point, and you can gain additional Hero Points
during sessions by performing heroic deeds or devising
clever strategies. Your character can use Hero Points to
gain certain benefits, such as staving off death or rerolling
a d20. See page 413 for more about Hero Points.
Armor Class (AC)
Your character’s Armor Class represents how difficult they
are to hit in combat. To calculate your AC, add 10 plus
your character’s Dexterity modifier (up to their armor’s
Dexterity modifier cap; page 271), plus their proficiency
bonus with their armor, plus their armor’s item bonus to
AC and any other permanent bonuses and penalties.
Bulk
Your character’s maximum Bulk determines how much
weight they can comfortably carry. If they’re carrying a
total amount of Bulk that exceeds 5 plus their Strength
modifier, they are encumbered. A character can’t carry a
total amount of Bulk that exceeds 10 plus their Strength
modifier. The Bulk your character is carrying equals the
sum of all of their items; keep in mind that 10 light items
make up 1 Bulk. You can find out more about Bulk in
Chapter 6.
Sample Character
This step-by-step example illustrates the process of
creating a Pathfinder character.
Steps 1 and 2
Adam is making his first Pathfinder character. After
talking about it with the rest of the group, he’s decided
to make a dwarf druid. After jotting down a few ideas, he
begins by writing down a +0 for each attribute modifier.
Step 3
Adam looks up the dwarf entry in Chapter 2. He records
the attribute boosts to his Constitution and Wisdom
modifiers (bringing both up to +1). He also applies the
attribute flaw to his Charisma, dropping it to –1. For his
free attribute boost, he chooses Dexterity to boost his
defenses, raising it to +1 as well. He also records the 10
Hit Points the ancestry gives him. Next, he returns to his
character sheet to record the size, Speed, language, and
darkvision ability he gets from being a dwarf. Finally, he
decides on a heritage, writing “rock dwarf” next to dwarf,
and he picks an ancestry feat, deciding on Rock Runner,
to show his character’s strong connection to stone.
Step 4
Looking through the backgrounds, Adam likes the idea
of a solitary dwarven druid, and the nomad background
makes for a good choice. For the first attribute boost
granted by the background, Adam chooses Wisdom, and
for the free attribute boost, he chooses Constitution,
taking both up to +2. On the second page, he writes
“Assurance (Survival)” in the Skill Feats area, on the
Background line. Finally, returning to the first page, he
writes “cave” next to the first Lore skill entry and checks
the box under the “T” for that skill and Survival.
Step 5
Adam writes “druid” on the class line of his character
sheet and fills in the number 1 in the level box. The druid
class grants an attribute boost to its key attribute, which is
Wisdom, so Adam’s character has his Wisdom raised to +3.
Step 6
Adam applies four more attribute boosts to determine
his starting attribute modifiers. After giving it some
thought, he applies them to Wisdom (raising it to +4),
since that’s the most important attribute modifier for
his class, and to Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution
(raising them to +1, +2, and +3, respectively) to make
him better in combat. He then writes his final attribute
modifiers down on his character sheet.
Step 7
As Adam applies his class, he has a number of things
to figure out. First, he starts by recording all of his
initial proficiencies, marking the appropriate boxes in
the Armor Class, Saving Throws, Weapon Proficiencies,
Spell Attack Modifier, and Spell DC areas of his sheet.
Turning to skills, he marks Nature as trained and notes
that once he picks his druid order, he’ll become trained
in another skill determined by that order. He then gets to
choose two more skills (if he had a higher Intelligence,
he would have gotten more). He decides on Athletics
and Medicine, marking both of them as trained. Next,
he adds the 8 Hit Points from the druid class and his
Constitution modifier of +3 to the 10 Hit Points from
his dwarf ancestry for an impressive 21 total Hit Points.
Moving on to class features, Adam chooses the Animal
Empathy feat from voice of nature and marks that and the
Shield Block feat in the bonus feats area. He makes note
of the anathema for being a druid and records Wildsong
in his language section. Next, he looks through the druid
orders and decides upon the untamed order, which gives
him his final trained skill (Intimidation), the ability to cast
untamed shift, and the Untamed Form feat, which lets
him cast a focus spell to turn into an animal. He writes
these spells in the focus spell area of his character sheet.
Because he has two focus spells, he notes that he has 2
Focus Points to use to cast these spells.
Finally, a druid can cast a limited number of primal
spells. Although he can change them every morning, Adam
is curious, and he turns to Chapter 7: Spells to decide
what spells he might cast. He jots down five cantrips and
two 1st-rank spells and marks them as prepared.
Step 8
Next up, Adam turns to Chapter 6: Equipment. He’s
trained in medium armor and chooses hide armor. For
weapons, he decides on a spear, but he buys two just in
case he wants to throw the first one. He writes all of
these on the front of his character sheet. Adam lists the
spear under both melee Strikes and ranged Strikes, and
he also writes the claws he gains from untamed shift
under his melee Strikes, because he’s sure that he’ll be
casting that spell a lot. He records the rest of his gear in
the Inventory section on the second page, along with any
currency left over after buying his starting gear.
Step 9
Adam records all of the attribute modifiers for Perception,
saving throws, Strikes, and skills. He then puts a “+3”
in the box marked Prof to indicate his proficiency bonus
for each statistic he’s trained in (1 for his level, plus 2
for being trained) and “+5” in any that he is an expert.
Then, he adds up his modifiers for each statistic.
Step 10
Finally, Adam fills out the final details of his character,
calculating his AC and Bulk limits. Last but not least, he
fills in some last-minute information about his character
and decides on a name. Gar the dwarf druid is ready for
his first adventure!
LEVELING UP
With each terrifying beast and deadly trap bested, a character earns Experience Points (XP)
that allow them to increase in level. Each level grants greater skill, increased resiliency, and
new capabilities, allowing your character to face even greater challenges and go on to earn
even more impressive rewards.
Each time your character reaches 1,000 Experience
Points, their level increases by 1. On your character
sheet, indicate your character’s new level beside the
name of their class, and deduct 1,000 XP from their
XP total. If you have any Experience Points left after
this, record them—they count toward your next level,
so your character is already on their way to advancing
yet again!
Next, return to your character’s class entry. Increase
your character’s total Hit Points by the number
indicated for your class. Then, take a look at the class
advancement table and find the row for your character’s
new level. Your character gains all the abilities listed
for that level, including new abilities specific to your
class and additional benefits all characters gain as they
level up. For example, all characters gain four attribute
boosts at 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter.
You can find all the new abilities specific to your class,
including class feats, right in your class entry, though
you can also use class feats to take an archetype (page
215). Your character’s class entry also explains how
to apply any attribute boosts and skill increases your
character gains. If they gain an ancestry feat, head back
to the entry for your character’s ancestry in Chapter 2
and select another ancestry feat from the list of options.
If they gain a skill increase, refer to Chapter 4 when
deciding which skill to apply it to. If they gain a general
feat or a skill feat, you can choose from the feats listed
in Chapter 5. If they can cast spells, see the class entry
for details on adding spell slots and spells. It’s also a
good idea to review your character’s spells
in Chapter 7 and see if there are
heightened versions they can
now cast.
Once you’ve made all your
choices for your character’s new
level, be sure to go over your
character sheet and adjust any
values that have changed. At a bare
minimum, your trained or higher
proficiency bonuses all increase by 1
because you’ve gained a level, so your
AC, attack rolls, Perception, saving
throws, skill modifiers, spell DC, and
class DC all increase by at least 1. You
might need to change other values
because of skill increases, attribute boosts,
or class features that either increase your proficiency
rank or increase other statistics at certain levels. If an
attribute boost increases your character’s Constitution
modifier, recalculate their maximum Hit Points using
their new Constitution modifier (typically this adds 1 Hit
Point per level). If an attribute boost increases
your character’s Intelligence modifier, they
become trained in an additional skill and
language. Some feats grant a benefit based
on your level, such as Toughness, and these
benefits are adjusted whenever you gain a
level as well.
You can perform the steps in the
leveling-up process in whichever order
you want. For example, if you wanted
to take the skill feat Intimidating
Prowess as your skill feat at 10th
level, but your character’s Strength
modifier was only +2, you could
first increase their Strength modifier
to +3 using the attribute boosts gained
at 10th level, and then take Intimidating Prowess as a
skill feat at the same level.
LEVELING-UP CHECKLIST

Every time you gain a level, make sure you do each of
the following:
• Increase your level by 1 and subtract 1,000 XP from
your XP total.
• Increase your maximum Hit Points by the amount
listed in your class entry in Chapter 3.
• Add class features from your class advancement table,
including attribute boosts and skill increases.
• Select feats as indicated on your class advancement
table. For ancestry feats, see Chapter 2. For class feats,
see your class entry in Chapter 3. For general feats and
skill feats, see Chapter 5.
• Add spells and spell slots if your class grants
spellcasting. See Chapter 7 for spells.
• Increase all of your trained or higher proficiency
bonuses by 1 from your new level, and make other
increases to your proficiency bonuses as necessary
from skill increases or other class features. Increase
any other statistics that changed as a result of attribute
boosts or other abilities.
• Adjust bonuses from feats and other abilities that are
based on your level.

GOLARION AND THE INNER SEA
While some players prefer to create a character and define them solely through roleplay,
other players may wish to tie their character into the world through backstory and motives.
Knowing the setting of the world you intend to play in can help flesh out your character, or
even give rise to new ideas for a character that you hadn’t considered.

ADJUSTING THE SETTING
Feel free to make Golarion your own! If something we
write in our books gets in the way of a concept you want
to play, ask your group and your GM if you can change
it. What’s important isn’t that you agree with the “official”
material that we publish, but that the people you play with
facilitate communal storytelling.
In fact, you don’t have to use this setting! While the
Pathfinder RPG rules do make some assumptions about the
world, many of these assumptions are common within the
fantasy genre. Elements that are more specific to Golarion
are often confined to certain feats and archetypes, which
you can change and remove as you see fit. You can easily
use the rules of Pathfinder to run a different setting, or a
world of your own creation.

PATHFINDER SOCIETY
A prominent group of adventurers, explorers, and
chronicle-keepers, the Pathfinder Society is well known
across Golarion. This name is shared with Paizo’s official
organized play campaign played around our world. Visit
PathfinderSociety.club to learn how you can participate!
The Pathfinder Roleplaying Game rules come with their
own default setting, known as Golarion. Golarion is a
world of magic, strange beasts and monsters, dragons,
sword-fighting adventure, and even some elements of
science fiction and technology. It draws inspiration from
many real-world nations and cultures, while combining
it with fantasy to make it a separate, unique place. Many
disparate characters are at home in Golarion’s setting,
and there are many historical events, people, and plot
hooks that a player can base a character around.
The Age of Lost Omens
For most of Golarion’s existence, arcane prophecy and
divine visions foretold of major events and great heroes.
In 4606 ar, prophecy decreed that the God of Humanity,
Aroden, would return to Golarion and usher in a new age
of glory. Instead, Aroden died, destroying the reliability of
prophecy with him. Unbound and unguided by fate, the
people of Golarion are now free to carve out their own
destinies in the current era, the Age of Lost Omens.
What Does My Character Know?
As someone who lives in a magical fantasy world, a
person from Golarion has a different set of assumptions
than someone from modern Earth. The following are
some of these setting assumptions to keep in mind as you
create your character. For more information on the world
of Golarion, see the Pathfinder Lost Omens World Guide
for a basic primer, and the Lost Omens setting line for a
deeper look at different parts of the world.
• Golarion is magical. Stories of wizards who can
cast spells and pious servants of the gods who can
conjure miracles are commonplace, and people know
that they are real. While very powerful magicians are
rare, most villages have a few people who have some
minor magical ability.
• Golarion has technology. The concept of a flintlock
pistol or a clockwork machine isn’t baffling to most
people, though there are exceptions in some regions.
However, the line between technology and magic is
fuzzy for many, and they might easily mistake one for
the other!
• Golarion is multicultural. Much like the real world,
Golarion has many different nations and cultures all
across the globe. Magical transportation, historical
explorations, and well-trod trade routes have seen
people from all over the world travel to other
locales. While immigrants and travelers from other
continents may not be common, they’re certainly
not impossible.
• Golarion is ancient. The known history of Golarion
spans nearly 6,000 years, and that doesn’t include the
history that people don’t know about! This long and
storied past means that there’s always some new secret
or discovery to be dug up by scholars—or some ancient
curse or threat waiting to be uncovered and set free.
• Golarion is dangerous. There’s almost always something
causing trouble on Golarion, from bandits to dragons
to corrupt nobles and would-be tyrants. Those who
seek to travel look to brave adventurers to forge the
way, ensuring their safety in a frightening world!
The Inner Sea Region
Because Golarion is so large, much of the adventures and
information we publish is focused on a specific region of
the world. This region is known as the Inner Sea region,
consisting of the northern continent of Avistan and half of
the southern continent known as Garund. The titular Inner
Sea was created when a meteor struck the planet in an event
known as Earthfall, which created a long gulf that is now
filled with water.
For simplicity, the Inner Sea region is further divided
into the following ten regions, which each have different
themes. These themes can help you tie your character to
the world, giving them a backstory that feels like part of
a larger story. Note that some of these themes are based
on rules and lore from other books, giving you even more
character possibilities.
Absalom and the Starstone Isle
Theme: Fantasy Megacity
Known as the City at the Center of the World, Absalom
displays the glory and squalor that only a major metropolis
can provide. Its crowning jewel is the Starstone, a magic
artifact that can turn someone who touches it into a god—
but only a handful of people have ever survived the attempt.
Absalom’s glittering promise of opportunity is there for
those who reach for it, provided they ignore the pile of
bodies that promise is built on.
Example Characters
• A jaded investigator seeking answers, but knowing the
truth lies with powerful people out of your reach.
• A sewer kobold trap master, protecting your home from
threats above and below with machinery and guile.
• A servant of a failed god, conjuring the essence of your
master to give them another chance at divinity.
Broken Lands
Theme: Survival in an Extreme Land
Civilization is disconnected in the Broken Lands, separated
by miles of brutal terrain. In some nations, these landscapes
are simply wild, filled with hardships that other lands have
forgotten—rushing rivers and craggy earth, where settlers
face down harsh winters and wild animals to survive. In
other nations, the environment is plagued by unnatural
dangers, such as scattered legions of forsaken demons or
metallic horrors that fell from the stars. Living is a constant
battle that leaves little time for anything else, but those who
manage it are usually self-sufficient and tough as nails.
This region includes Brevoy, a nation once united by a
dragon-riding conqueror but now on the brink of civil war;
Mendev, a crusader nation struggling against the remnants of
demonic armies; Numeria, a harsh land plagued by robotic
horrors from a crashed spaceship; Razmiran, an exploitive
theocracy ruled by a living god; the River Kingdoms, a
lawless region where kingdoms rise and fall by the year; and
the Sarkoris Scar, a demon-blighted land that has recently
gained a spark of hope that one day it might be restored.
Example Characters
• A battle-scarred demon slayer, veteran of a crusade
against the Outer Rifts that lasted over 100 years.
• A barbarian who wields an unearthly sword, a
technological trophy beyond your understanding.
• A god caller, who summons one of the Old Sarkorian
gods into incarnate form to stalk the earth by your side.
• A disguised android, child of a fallen starship,
tasked with finding your way in a world that doesn’t
understand you.
• A would-be king, determined to carve a nation from the
wilderness—and if you’re lucky, keep it.
Eye of Dread
Theme: Horror and War
The Eye of Dread is a land that is soaked in blood. From
the earliest days after Earthfall, when the orc hordes boiled
up from underground tunnels ahead of their dwarven foes,
the region has been plagued by conflict and carnage. The
infamous lich Tar-Baphon, known as the Whispering Tyrant,
has raised undead armies here three times; he has been pushed
back twice by heroes, but it remains to be seen whether he
can be felled once more. Yet even the overwhelming threat
of the lich may not be able to overcome the old hatreds and
jingoistic warhawks that have plagued the area, as Molthune
plots to conquer Nirmathas and find revenge against Oprak.
This region includes Belkzen, the home of the orc
holds that recently united under threat from Tar-Baphon;
the Gravelands, formerly the nation of Lastwall, which
Tar-Baphon utterly destroyed a few years ago; the Eye
of Terror, the island that serves as Tar-Baphon’s lair;
Molthune, a militaristic and jingoistic nation that has
recently taken several blows to its pride; Nirmathas, a
fiercely independent region in a precarious fight for its
survival; Oprak, a newly founded nation for hobgoblins
and other peoples often considered “monsters”; and
Ustalav, a grim and haunted nation filled with ghosts,
werecreatures, vampires, and other children of the night.
Example Characters
• A doomed noble scion of Ustalav, seeking an end to
your family’s curse before it claims your life.
• An outcast inventor, shunned for your forays into new
technologies and their untapped potential.
• A crusader against undead hordes, praying your
newfound camaraderie and the Crimson Oath you
swore will keep you safe, or at least make your death
quick and clean.
• A grim orc champion, veteran of wars against humanity,
now tasked with making alliances and inroads with
people you once despised.
Golden Road
Theme: Wealth and Ancient Empires
Though the deserts in this region may seem inhospitable, its
rivers teem with life, including some of the oldest civilizations
in the Inner Sea. The prestige of these civilizations, combined
with extremely lucrative trade routes, has made the local
nations wealthy and luxurious for many. Despite this stability,
the land isn’t short on perils—an ancient history leaves
plenty of old monsters and curses, and long-entrenched evils
lurk in uninhabited reaches to prey on the unwary. Keeping
such old empires from falling into decline may be an even
greater challenge, and both rulers and scholars search for
new ways to keep their nations relevant in a changing world.
This region includes Katapesh, a market city that made
its fortune on illicit dealings; Osirion, an empire filled with
ruins from its glorious past; Qadira, a distant satrapy of
the eastern Kelesh Empire; Rahadoum, a nation of militant
atheists who banned religion after holy wars devastated
their country; and Thuvia, a small nation renowned for
alchemical and technological wonders.
Example Characters
• A curse-dodging archaeologist, given special permission
by the Ruby Prince to explore ancient tombs and
remove their dangers.
• An atheist scientist, developing innovative medicine to
heal without bowing to the demands of gods.
• A clockwork engineer, struggling to recreate the
wondrous technologies of a long-extinct empire.
• A desert nomad, with knowledge of how to avoid the
demons and howling monsters of the Golden Road,
constantly sought by merchants as a guide.
• A student of alchemy, hoping to one day gain admittance
to the Citadel of the Alchemist, and learn from the man
who discovered the secret of immortality.
High Seas
Theme: Lawless Reaches and Swashbuckling Adventure
Try as they might, no nation can claim control of the seas.
Fleets from powerful empires have sought to try, only to run
afoul of marauding corsairs and supernatural hurricanes.
Despite the sea’s crucial role in travel and trade, monsters,
privateers, and underwater civilizations make the oceans
something close to a free-for-all—and that’s just how
many of its residents like it. The pirates of the Shackles
are a scourge on merchants, and navies are locked in a
formidable arms race to stay one step ahead of the swift
raiding ships. Mysterious locales also dot the vast oceans:
the twisting Mordant Spire, the assassin headquarters of
Mediogalti Island, or the shattered chunks that remain of
the destroyed continent of Azlant.
Example Characters
• A Red Mantis assassin, tasked by your god to carry out
bloody contracts for money as a holy rite.
• An elf of the Mordant Spire, following the mysterious
whispers of a deceased divinity.
• A tengu jinx eater, believed by your seafaring comrades
to be able to devour misfortune—so much so they
press-ganged you into service!
Impossible Lands
Theme: Powerful Magic—and its Consequences
The Impossible Lands exist, despite their common moniker,
but have been dubbed as such by those in disbelief of their
splendors—and in horror of their atrocities. A magical war
between two immortal wizards dragged on for millennia,
and the damage done by their hubris has never healed. Huge
stretches of land are blighted by erratic magic and undead
mutants, and plagued by hellish storms of molten glass and
living weapons of war. In response to the chaos of magic
gone wrong, people have developed technology to rely upon
instead, though these destructive guns and cannons may
prove just as ruinous as the spells they were meant to replace.
This region includes Alkenstar, a technological city that
lies in a region where magic is dead; Geb, a nation ruled
by a ghostly wizard and his undead subjects; Jalmeray, a
colony of Vudra, filled with magic, martial disciplines, and a
stained legacy; the Mana Wastes, a desert wracked by erratic
magic from the wizard wars; and Nex, a nation of magical
wonders that hides its rotting interior.
Example Characters
• A gun-toting mutant staging raids on caravans to
acquire precious ammunition and black powder.
• A student alchemist in the glass-domed city of
Oenopion, who saw the horrible fate of another
apprentice and now fears for your life.
• A magical doll designed to be a simple helper construct,
but who has begun to develop a mind of your own.
• A street prophet who has heard the whispers of victims
that were murdered and thrown into the ooze bath that
dwells beneath your city.
Mwangi Expanse
Theme: Mighty Cities and Abundant Wilds
One of the most diverse regions on Golarion, this
equatorial landscape is filled with jungles, savannas,
mountains, and swamps. Nestled in this wilderness
are great city-states, isolated mainly due to their self-
sufficiency. The Mwangi Expanse is rich in resources and
danger alike, both stemming mainly from the natural
world—though supernatural menace likewise lurks in the
forests, from carnivorous firefly gods to demonic gorillas.
This region includes Bloodcove, a haven for pirates
across the Inner Sea; Kibwe, a merchant city watched
over by mysterious statues; Mzali, an ancient city under
the rule of a mummified child; Nantambu, home of the
oldest magical academy in the Inner Sea; Senghor, a naval
powerhouse with unique ceramic ships; Usaro, a chaotic
city controlled by demonic apes and monkeys; and Vidrian,
a nation that recently threw off its colonial shackles.
Example Characters
• A student of the Magaambya, plucked from your village
life to study at the magical college in Nantambu.
• A Vidric rebel, who wrested the freedom of your nation
from foreign overlords and pirates alike.
• A warrior of the Bright Lions, seeking to overthrow the
undead child-god who rules over your city.
• An astrologist of the drowned nation of Lirgen, tirelessly
researching a means to end the eternal hurricane that
destroyed your homeland.
Old Cheliax
Theme: Political and Spiritual Corruption
The nation of Cheliax is Hell come to earth. In the wake
of Aroden’s death, a civil war between nobles saw House
Thrune rise triumphant—their victory sealed by a bargain
with devils. What was once one of the greatest human
empires on Golarion has declined into an iron-fisted
tyranny, crushing any dissent with the full force of the state.
Its allies include the nation of Nidal, a land that turned itself
over to the god of darkness and pain in order to survive
an apocalypse. These twisted kingdoms have not gone
unchallenged, however, and rebellion continues to foment in
the wake of their cruelties.
This region includes Cheliax, a damned empire whose
leaders have pledged themselves to Hell; Isger, a vassal of
Cheliax wracked by neglect and war; Nidal, the shadowy
domain of Zon-Kuthon; and Ravounel, a former vassal state
that freed itself from Cheliax via a contractual loophole.
Example Characters
• A halfling rebel, using your status as an ignored
underclass to spy on your masters for freedom fighters.
• A secret follower of Desna, the god of luck and dreams,
preaching in Nidal while avoiding the notice of the
nation’s shadowy priests.
• A noble of Cheliax who signed a contract with the devil
in your youth and are starting to have second thoughts.
• A native of Nidal, gifted with power over darkness
from your patron god of Zon-Kuthon—whether you
worship him or not.
Saga Lands
Theme: Heroic Adventure and Legacy
A sprawling frontier dotted with cities, this region
demands exploration both by custom and necessity. Many
people here still live nomadic lifestyles, traveling wilderness
roads in lively caravans, or following herds of massive
megafauna that serve as food. As often as not, one can find
adventure on these journeys, as the land is riddled with
curious ruins and epic monsters. The mysteries of the Saga
Lands don’t rest easily, as powerful spellcasters from the
ancient past have returned over the last few decades, intent
on reclaiming what was once theirs!
This region includes Irrisen, a frozen land conquered by
the witch Baba Yaga and now ruled by her descendants; the
Lands of the Linnorm Kings, a nation of fearsome warriors
and raiders; New Thassilon, a pair of cities brought forward
in time from thousands of years in the past; the Realm of the
Mammoth Lords, where megafauna from ancient times still
lives side by side with humanity; and Varisia, where strange
and powerful cities dot a sprawling wilderness.
Example Characters
• An ice witch granted frost magic by a distant relation
to Baba Yaga, trying to avoid attention from your cruel
and powerful relatives.
• An average citizen of a long-lost empire, dragged
through time by magical powers beyond your control.
• A Varisian merchant sprinting across the continent to
sell your goods for high prices to southern nobles.
Shining Kingdoms
Theme: Knights, Councils, and Castles
Tales of gallant cavaliers and fire-breathing dragons
dominate the cultural zeitgeist of this land—though these
days, dragons are sparse on the ground, and cavaliers far
more worldly and unpleasant. Though not home to the
most powerful of nations, the influence of this region can’t
be overstated. Armies from this land have marched to face
some of the direst threats the Inner Sea region has ever
seen, while scholars from cities spread their ideology across
the world, from rousing endorsements of democracy to
bloody justice and rebellion.
This region includes Andoran, a bastion for democratic
governance and freedom for all; Druma, a trade hub obsessed
with material gain; the Five Kings Mountains, home to
fractured kingdoms of the dwarves; Galt, a land wracked
from violence and revolution; Kyonin, the illusion-cloaked
homeland of the elves; and Taldor, the ossified remnants of
one of the most powerful empires in the Inner Sea.
Example Characters
• A smiling government agent, seeking out enemies of the
state and dealing with them as necessary.
• An elven ranger that stalks the corrupted forest of
Tanglebrair, sniping any demons you encounter from
your forested perches.
• A dwarven delver, exploring deep tunnels beneath the
earth and risking encounters with the terrible creatures
that lurk down there.
Regional Languages
These regional languages are uncommon outside the region
of their genesis. A character hailing from one of the regions
listed below automatically has access to that language. In
the Inner Sea region, the language referred to as Common
elsewhere in the rules is the same as Taldane.
TABLE 2–3: REGIONAL LANGUAGE
Language Speakers
Hallit Broken Lands, Eye of Dread, Saga Lands
Kelish Golden Road
Mwangi Mwangi Expanse, the Shackles, Thuvia, Vidrian
Osiriani Geb, Katapesh, Mana Wastes, Nex, Osirion,
Rahadoum, Thuvia
Shoanti Hold of Belkzen, Varisia
Skald Irrisen, Lands of the Linnorm Kings
Tien Lands of the Linnorm Kings, Realm of the
Mammoth Lords, Tian Xia
Varisian Brevoy, the Gravelands, Nidal, Nirmathas,
Ustalav, Varisia
Vudrani Jalmeray, Katapesh, Nex, Vudra
RELIGION
Selection of a deity is critical for clerics, but most characters pay respect to at least one
deity to find a focus in life and guide their choices, especially in times of hardship or need.
Some people instead worship a group of deities arranged in a pantheon, follow a non-deific
religion like the Green Faith, or adhere to a specific philosophy. Note that far more deities,
religions, and philosophies exist on any world, Golarion included, than those detailed below.
Deities
Anyone can worship a deity, but those who do so devoutly
should take care to pursue the faith’s edicts (behaviors
the faith encourages) and avoid its anathemas (actions
considered blasphemous, and could cause a god to revoke
their blessings). Each deity below has their name and title,
followed by a short description and cultural information,
including the attributes for characters who have the Raised
by Belief background (page 88). Following that are the
benefits available to the most ardent devotees of the deities.
You get these benefits only if you’re a cleric of the deity or
some other rule specifically gives you a devotee benefit.
Abadar
Abadar, Master of the First Vault, seeks to bring
civilization to the wilds of the world, encourages
adherence to the law, and promotes commerce
and trade within civilization. He also encourages cooperation
among ancestries.
Areas of Concern cities, law, merchants, and wealth
Edicts bring civilization to the frontiers, earn wealth through hard
work and trade, follow the rule of law
Anathema engage in banditry or piracy, steal, undermine a
law-abiding court
Divine Attribute Constitution or Intelligence
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: illusory object, 4th: creation, 7th: planar palace
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Sanctification can choose holy or unholy
Divine Skill Society
Domains cities, earth, travel, wealth
Favored Weapon crossbow
Asmodeus
Asmodeus, Prince of Darkness, delights in tempting
mortals to give in to corruption. He promotes
hierarchies where everyone knows their place, and
he takes advantage of order for his own selfish benefit.
Areas of Concern contracts, oppression, pride, and tyranny
Edicts negotiate contracts to your best advantage, rule tyrannically
and torture weaker beings, show subservience to your betters
Anathema break a contract, share power with the weak, insult
Asmodeus by showing mercy to your enemies
Divine Attribute any (characters who commit themselves to
Asmodeus this way have their souls bound to the Dark
Prince for all eternity)

Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: charm, 4th: suggestion, 6th: mislead
Divine Font harm
Divine Sanctification must choose unholy
Divine Skill Deception
Domains confidence, fire, trickery, tyranny
Favored Weapon mace
Calistria
Calistria, the Savored Sting, is a mischievous
and mercurial god of attraction who delights in
tricking others and seeks vengeance on those
who slight her. Though Calistria is most widely worshipped by
elves, members of many other ancestries follow her as well.
Areas of Concern lust, revenge, and trickery
Edicts pursue your personal freedom, seek hedonistic thrills,
take revenge
Anathema become too consumed by love or a need for
revenge, let a slight go unanswered
Divine Attribute Dexterity or Charisma
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: charm, 3rd: enthrall, 6th: mislead
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Sanctification can choose holy or unholy
Divine Skill Deception
Domains pain, passion, secrecy, trickery
Favored Weapon whip
Cayden Cailean
The Accidental God ascended from mortal life on a
drunken dare. Cayden, the Drunken Hero, promotes
freedom and encourages others to find their own path
in life. He fights for just causes and delights in the best indulgences.
Areas of Concern ale, bravery, freedom, and wine
Edicts drink, aid the oppressed, seek glory and adventure
Anathema waste alcohol, be mean or standoffish when drunk,
oppress the vulnerable
Divine Attribute Constitution or Charisma
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: fleet step, 2nd: stupefy, 5th: hallucination
Divine Font heal
Divine Sanctification can choose holy
Divine Skill Athletics
Domains cities, freedom, indulgence, might
Favored Weapon rapier
SANCTIFICATION

Some deities sanctify their clerics and similarly devoted
followers. This gives the follower the holy or unholy trait.
The holy trait (page 456) indicates a powerful devotion
to altruism, helping others, and battling against unholy
forces like fiends and undead. The unholy trait (page 462),
in turn, shows devotion to victimizing others, inflicting
harm, and battling celestial powers. Deities that list “must
choose” mandate gaining the trait and those that list “can
choose” give the devotee the option to choose the trait or
not. You can have the holy trait, unholy trait, or neither, but
can never have both the holy and unholy traits.
Spells and other effects can also have these traits,
making them more powerful against creatures with the
opposite trait. Some spells and abilities have the sanctified
trait. If you have the holy or unholy trait, when you use a
sanctified ability you add your holy or unholy trait to it.
Desna
Desna set her sights on the heavens, placing stars
in the sky to guide travelers through the darkness
and dreamers through nightmares. The Song of
Spheres delights in freedom and mystery, and encourages her
followers to do the same.
Areas of Concern dreams, luck, stars, and travelers
Edicts aid fellow travelers, explore new places, express
yourself through art and song, find what life has to offer
Anathema cause fear or despair, cast nightmare or use similar
magic to corrupt dreams, engage in bigoted behavior
Divine Attribute Charisma or Dexterity
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: sleep, 4th: translocate, 5th: dreaming potential
Divine Font heal
Divine Sanctification can choose holy
Divine Skill Acrobatics
Domains dreams, luck, moon, travel
Favored Weapon starknife
Erastil
Long ago, Erastil was a horned god of the hunt, but
his worship evolved to focus on rural communities.
Old Deadeye desires nothing more than peaceful
lives for his followers, calling them to arms only when that
pastoral existence is threatened.
Areas of Concern family, farming, hunting, and trade
Edicts care for your home and family, fulfill your duties, keep
the peace, protect the community
Anathema abandon your home in its time of need, choose yourself
over your community, tarnish your reputation, tell lies
Divine Attribute Constitution or Wisdom
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: sure strike, 3rd: wall of thorns, 5th:

nature’s pathway
Divine Font heal
Divine Sanctification can choose holy
Divine Skill Survival
Domains earth, family, nature, wealth
Favored Weapon longbow
Gorum
Anyone who seeks glory on the battlefield calls
out prayers to Our Lord in Iron. Gorum emphasizes
might, encouraging his followers to seek out war
and combat as the ultimate way to worship him.
Areas of Concern battle, strength, and weapons
Edicts attain victory in fair combat, push your limits, wear
armor in combat
Anathema kill prisoners or surrendering foes, prevent conflict
through negotiation, win a battle through underhanded
tactics or indirect magic
Divine Attribute Strength or Constitution
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: sure strike, 2nd: enlarge, 4th: weapon storm
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Sanctification can choose holy or unholy
Divine Skill Athletics
Domains confidence, destruction, might, zeal
Favored Weapon greatsword
Gozreh
A deity of two aspects, Gozreh is the sea that
encapsulates the land and the wind that moves
its surface. The Wind and the Waves are popular
with druids and those who seek to preserve the wilds.
Areas of Concern nature, the sea, and weather
Edicts cherish, protect, and respect nature in all its forms
Anathema bring civilization to intrude on the wild, create
undead, despoil areas of natural beauty
Divine Attribute Constitution or Wisdom
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: gust of wind, 3rd: lightning bolt, 5th: control water
Divine Font heal
Divine Sanctification none
Divine Skill Survival
Domains air, nature, travel, water
Favored Weapon trident
Iomedae
Prior to her ascension and inheritance of many
of the god of humanity’s worshippers, Iomedae
was a holy warrior in wars against the undead.
The Inheritor upholds the values of virtue, fighting against the
wicked and unjust.
Areas of Concern honor, justice, rulership, and valor
Edicts be temperate, fight for justice and honor, hold valor in
your heart
Anathema abandon a companion in need, dishonor yourself,
refuse a challenge from an equal
Divine Attribute Strength or Constitution
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: sure strike, 2nd: enlarge, 4th: fire shield
Divine Font heal
Divine Sanctification must choose holy
Divine Skill Intimidation
Domains confidence, might, truth, zeal
Favored Weapon longsword
Irori
As a mortal, Irori attained true enlightenment,
allowing him to break free of the shackles of
mortality and achieve divinity. As a god, he is the
Master of Masters and promotes discipline and teaches that
one who can master themself finds the greatest benefits the
world can provide.
Areas of Concern history, knowledge, and self-perfection
Edicts be humble; help others perfect themselves; hone your
body, mind, and spirit to a more perfect state; practice discipline
Anathema engage in overly unhealthy or self-destructive
behaviors, destroy an important historical text, repeatedly
fail to maintain self-control
Divine Attribute Intelligence or Wisdom
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: jump, 3rd: haste, 4th: mountain resilience
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Sanctification can choose holy or unholy
Divine Skill Athletics
Domains knowledge, might, perfection, truth
Favored Weapon fist
Lamashtu
Lamashtu, the Mother of Monsters, revels in
corruption of the pure. The physical changes and
nightmares left by her interventions are treated
as gifts by her followers and unwelcome terrors by the outside
world. There are some that find respite or even a family among
Lamashtu’s followers due to the faith’s greater acceptance
of differences.
Areas of Concern aberrance, monsters, and nightmares
Edicts bring power to outcasts and the downtrodden, indoctrinate
others in Lamashtu’s teachings, make the beautiful monstrous,
reveal the corruption and flaws in all things
Anathema attempt to change that which makes you different,
provide succor to Lamashtu’s enemies
Divine Attribute Strength or Constitution
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: spider sting, 2nd: animal form, 4th: nightmare
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Sanctification can choose unholy
Divine Skill Survival

Domains family, might, nightmares, trickery
Favored Weapon falchion
Nethys
Once a mortal master of magic, Nethys sought to
unlock all the secrets of the planes, ascending to
godhood as his mind truly understood the entire
potential of magic. The All-Seeing Eye is a dualistic god, teaching
both the destructive and protective potential of magic.
Areas of Concern magic
Edicts seek out magical power and use it
Anathema pursue mundane paths over magical ones
Divine Attribute Intelligence or Wisdom
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: force barrage, 2nd: embed message, 3rd:
levitate, 4th: flicker, 5th: telekinetic haul, 6th: wall of force,
7th: warp mind, 8th: quandary, 9th: detonate magic
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Sanctification can choose holy or unholy
Divine Skill Arcana
Domains destruction, knowledge, magic, protection
Favored Weapon staff
Norgorber
This shadowy figure is worshipped in four aspects:
Blackfingers, ally of alchemists and poisoners;
the murderous Father Skinsaw; the thieving Gray
Master; and the secretive Reaper of Reputation.
Areas of Concern greed, murder, poison, and secrets
Edicts keep your true identity secret, sacrifice anyone necessary,
take every advantage in a fight, work from the shadows
Anathema allow your true identity to be connected to your
foul dealings, share a secret freely, show mercy
Divine Attribute Dexterity or Intelligence
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: illusory disguise, 2nd: invisibility, 4th: vision
of death
Divine Font harm
Divine Sanctification can choose unholy
Divine Skill Stealth
Domains death, secrecy, trickery, wealth
Favored Weapon shortsword
Pharasma
Ancient and powerful beyond even most other
gods, Pharasma judges the souls of all who perish
from her throne in the Boneyard. Through these
judgments, the Lady of Graves ensures that the natural cycle
of birth and death—the River of Souls—is not disrupted.
Areas of Concern birth, death, fate, prophecy, and time
Edicts strive to understand ancient prophecies, destroy
undead, lay bodies to rest
Anathema create undead, desecrate a corpse, rob a tomb
Divine Attribute Constitution or Wisdom
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: mindlink, 3rd: ghostly weapon, 4th: vision of death
Divine Font heal
Divine Sanctification none
Divine Skill Medicine
Domains death, fate, healing, knowledge
Favored Weapon dagger
Rovagug
Rovagug, the Rough Beast, was long ago
imprisoned within Golarion’s core at the hands
of many other deities working in concert, and he
seeks to one day break free and wreak havoc upon the world.
He is served by his spawn and those who seek the ultimate
destruction of all things.
Areas of Concern destruction, disaster, and wrath
Edicts destroy all things, free Rovagug from his prison
Anathema create something new, let material ties restrain
you, torture a victim or otherwise delay its destruction
Divine Attribute Strength or Constitution
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: breathe fire, 2nd: enlarge, 6th: disintegrate
Divine Font harm
Divine Sanctification must choose unholy
Divine Skill Athletics
Domains air, destruction, earth, zeal
Favored Weapon greataxe
Sarenrae
Once a powerful angel and empyreal lord,
Sarenrae led the charge to imprison Rovagug. The
Dawnflower seeks to redeem evil where possible,
burn it away with the fire of the sun when it can’t be redeemed,
and restore those harmed by evil’s machinations.
Areas of Concern healing, honest redemption, and the sun
Edicts destroy the Spawn of Rovagug, protect allies, provide
aid to the sick and wounded, seek and allow redemption
Anathema create undead, lie, deny a repentant creature an
opportunity for redemption, fail to strike down evil
Divine Attribute Constitution or Wisdom
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: breathe fire, 3rd: fireball, 4th: wall of fire
Divine Font heal
Divine Sanctification can choose holy
Divine Skill Medicine
Domains fire, healing, sun, truth
Favored Weapon scimitar
Shelyn
Shelyn, the Eternal Rose, promotes peace and
love, and she encourages her followers to create
beauty in a sometimes-dark world. She seeks to
one day redeem her corrupted brother, Zon-Kuthon.
Areas of Concern art, beauty, love, and music

Edicts be peaceful, choose and perfect an art, lead by example,
see the beauty in all things
Anathema destroy art or allow it to be destroyed, unless saving
a life or pursuing greater art; refuse to accept surrender
Divine Attribute Wisdom or Charisma
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: dizzying colors, 3rd: enthrall, 4th: creation
Divine Font heal
Divine Sanctification can choose holy
Divine Skill select Crafting or Performance
Domains creation, family, passion, protection
Favored Weapon glaive
Torag
Although revered by many dwarves as the
Father of Creation, Torag strives to protect every
community where he is worshipped and is also
followed by those who treasure crafting and creation.
Areas of Concern forge, protection, and strategy
Edicts be honorable and forthright, keep your word, respect
the forge, serve your people
Anathema tell lies or cheat someone, intentionally create
inferior works, show continued mercy to the enemies of
your people when such enemies prove they are undeserving
Divine Attribute Constitution or Wisdom
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: mindlink, 3rd: earthbind, 4th: creation
Divine Font heal
Divine Sanctification can choose holy
Divine Skill Crafting
Domains creation, earth, family, protection
Favored Weapon warhammer
Urgathoa
So infatuated with the pleasures of the living
world, Urgathoa escaped the clutches of death
and the afterlife, becoming the first undead. The
Pallid Princess now revels in the sharing of her hedonistic
ways and spreading undeath.
Areas of Concern disease, gluttony, and undeath
Edicts become undead upon death, create or protect the
undead, sate your appetites
Anathema deny your appetites, destroy undead, sacrifice
your life
Divine Attribute Constitution or Wisdom
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: goblin pox, 2nd: false vitality, 7th: mask
of terror
Divine Font harm
Divine Sanctification must choose unholy
Divine Skill Intimidation
Domains indulgence, magic, might, undeath
Favored Weapon scythe
Zon-Kuthon
Once a god of art, beauty, and music, like Shelyn,
the Midnight Lord returned from a sojourn in the
dark spaces between the planes horribly changed.
Zon-Kuthon now teaches the pleasures of pain and darkness.
Areas of Concern darkness, envy, loss, and pain
Edicts bring pain to the world, mutilate your body
Anathema create permanent or long-lasting sources of light,
provide comfort to those who suffer
Divine Attributes Constitution or Wisdom
Devotee Benefits
Cleric Spells 1st: phantom pain, 3rd: wall of thorns, 5th:
umbral journey
Divine Font harm
Divine Sanctification can choose unholy
Divine Skill Intimidation
Domains ambition, darkness, destruction, pain
Favored Weapon spiked chain
Faiths and Philosophies
Of course, faith can express itself in more ways than

venerating a single deity—or a deity at all. A few
examples of non-deific religions and philosophies are
presented below. These faiths and philosophies don’t have
an external godhead that offers benefits to devotees.
Atheism
While most concede that the gods exist, some do
not view them as worthy of worship, and a few
even deny their presence altogether.
Edicts pursue your own agenda with faith in your ability to excel
Anathema offer prayers to a deity
Green Faith
The worshippers of the Green Faith count many
druids among their number. They view nature as
divine and draw strength from the knowledge of
their place in the natural order.
Edicts guide civilization to grow in harmony with nature, preserve
areas of natural wilderness, protect endangered species
Anathema cause damage to natural settings, kill animals for
reasons other than self-defense or sustenance, allow abuse
of natural resources
DOMAINS

Clerics and some other devotees can gain domain spells from their deities. The following domains are used by the primary
deities of Golarion. See page 113 to learn how clerics gain domain spells, and find the spells on pages 372–381.
Domain Description
Air You can control winds and the weather.
Ambition You strive to keep up with and outpace
the competition.
Cities You have powers over urban
environments and denizens.
Confidence You overcome your fear and project pride.
Creation You have divine abilities related to
crafting and art.
Darkness You operate in the darkness and take
away the light.
Death You have the power to end lives and
destroy undead.
Destruction You are a conduit for divine devastation.
Dreams You have the power to enter and
manipulate dreams.
Earth You control soil and stone.
Family You aid and protect your family and
community more effectively.
Fate You see and understand hidden inevitabilities.
Fire You control flame.
Freedom You liberate yourself and others from
shackles and constraints.
Healing Your healing magic is particularly potent.
Indulgence You feast mightily and can shake off the
effects of overindulging.
Knowledge You receive divine insights.

Luck You’re unnaturally lucky and keep out of
harm’s way.
Magic You perform the unexpected and inexplicable.
Might Your physical power is bolstered by
divine strength.
Moon You command powers associated with
the moon.
Nature You hold power over animals and plants.
Nightmares You fill minds with horror and dread.
Pain You punish those who displease you with
the sharp sting of pain.
Passion You evoke passion, whether as love or lust.
Perfection You strive to perfect your mind, body,
and spirit.
Protection You ward yourself and others.
Secrecy You protect secrets and keep them hidden.
Sun You harness the power of the sun and
other light sources, and punish undead.
Travel You have power over movement and journeys.
Trickery You deceive others and cause mischief.
Truth You pierce lies and discover the truth.
Tyranny You wield power to rule and control others.
Undeath Your magic carries close ties to the undead.
Water You control water and bodies of water.
Wealth You hold power over wealth, trade, and
treasure.
Zeal Your inner fire increases your combat prowess.