CHAPTER 3:
CLASSES
Just as your character’s ancestry plays a key role in expressing their identity and worldview,
their class indicates the training they have and will improve upon as an adventurer.
Choosing your character’s class is perhaps the most important decision you will make for
them. Groups of players often create characters whose skills and abilities complement each
other mechanically—for example, ensuring your party includes a healer, a combat-oriented
character, a stealthy character, and someone with command over magic—so you may wish
to discuss options with your group before deciding.
The rules within each class allow you to bring a wealth
of character concepts to life. Perhaps you want to create
a brilliant but scatterbrained wizard who can rattle
off complex formulas for magic items but has trouble
remembering his best friend’s birthday. Or perhaps you
want your character to be a muscle‐bound swordswoman
who becomes as immovable as a mountain when she
hoists a shield. Maybe they’ll be a hot-tempered witch
whose gesticulating fingers pulse with power granted
through dealings with a mysterious patron. The choices
you make for your character within their class—such as
a cleric’s choice of deity, a fighter’s choice of weapon, or
a school where a wizard studied—bring these visions to
life within the context of the rules and the world.
The entries on the pages that follow describe 8 classes
in Pathfinder. Each entry contains the information you
need to play a character of that class, as well as how to
develop them from their humble beginnings at 1st level to
the dizzying heights of power at 20th level. In addition to
the class entries, you might need to reference the following
sections, which detail additional character options and
how to advance your character in level.
• Leveling Up on page 29 tells you how to make your
character stronger when you get enough Experience
Points to reach a new level.
• Companions and Familiars on page 206 provides
rules to create an animal companion or a familiar
to share your adventures with. You must have a
class feature or feat that grants you a companion or
familiar to use these rules.
• Archetypes on page 215 gives you thematic options
that allow you to further customize your character’s
abilities. Though these rules are not recommended for
beginners, the archetypes in this book allow you to
gain abilities from other classes starting at 2nd level.
Reading Class Entries
Every class entry includes information about typical
members of the class, plus suggestions for roleplaying
characters of that class and playing these characters in the
game’s various modes. Each class provides your character
with an attribute boost to a key attribute; a number of
Hit Points they receive at each level; proficiency ranks for

various abilities, equipment, and skills; special abilities
from their class features; and more. Your character’s class
entry also provides the information needed when they
gain levels, so it will be a vital reference throughout the
course of your campaign.
Playing the Class
The first section of each class describes the interests and
tendencies typical of that class, as well as information
on how others view them. This can help inspire you
as you determine your character’s actions and define
their personality, but you aren’t obligated to play your
character as this section describes.
Key Attribute
This is the attribute modifier that a member of your class
cares about the most. Many of your most useful and
powerful abilities are tied to this attribute in some way.
For instance, this is the attribute modifier you’ll use to
determine the Difficulty Class (DC) associated with your
character’s class features and feats. This is called your
class DC. If your character is a member of a spellcasting
class, this key attribute is used to calculate spell DCs and
similar values.
Most classes are associated with one key attribute
modifier, but some allow you to choose from two
options. For instance, if you’re a fighter, you can choose
either Strength or Dexterity as your key attribute. A
fighter who chooses Strength will excel in hand-to-hand
combat, while those who choose Dexterity prefer ranged
or finesse weapons.
Additionally, when you choose your character’s
class, they gain an attribute boost to their key attribute
modifier, increasing that attribute modifier by 2. For
more about attribute boosts, see page 19.
Hit Points
This section tells you how many Hit Points your character
gains from their class at each level. To determine your
character’s starting Hit Points, add together the Hit Points
they got when you chose their ancestry and the amount
listed in this entry, which equals your Constitution
modifier plus a fixed number. Classes that intend for
characters to rush into battle with weapons bared gain
a higher number of Hit Points each level, while those for
characters who cast spells or engage in trickery gain fewer.
Each time your character gains a level, they increase their
maximum Hit Points by the amount listed in this entry.
For more about calculating your character’s Constitution
modifier and determining their Hit Points, see page 24.
Initial Proficiencies
When you choose your character’s class, they gain a
set of initial proficiencies. Proficiencies measure your
character’s ability to perform tasks, use abilities, and
succeed at checks. Proficiency ranks range from trained
to legendary. For instance, a character who is trained
with a longbow can use it effectively, while a person who
is legendary with the weapon might be able to split an
arrow from 100 paces away!
Each class entry specifies your character’s initial
proficiency rank in Perception, saving throws, attacks,
defenses, and class DC. You gain the trained proficiency
rank in several skills—the exact number depends on
your class, and some classes specify certain additional
skills that you’re trained in. If your class would make
you trained in a skill you’re already trained in (typically
due to your background), you can select another skill to
become trained in.
A proficiency rank can unlock various feats and class
features, and it also helps determine the modifier for any
check you roll or DC you calculate related to that statistic.
If your character is trained in Perception, a saving throw,
or another statistic, they gain a proficiency bonus equal to
their level + 2, while if they have expert proficiency, they
gain a proficiency bonus equal to their level + 4. For more
about proficiency ranks, see page 11.
Spellcasting classes grant a proficiency rank for spell
attacks and DCs, which are further detailed in each
class’s entry. These classes rarely use their class DC.
If something isn’t listed in your character’s class entry,
their proficiency rank in that statistic is untrained unless
they gain training from another source. If your character
is untrained in something, you add a proficiency bonus
of +0 when attempting a check or calculating a DC
related to that statistic.
Advancement Table
This table summarizes the feats, skill increases, attribute
boosts, and other benefits your character gains as they
advance in level. The first column of the class table
indicates a level, and the second column lists each
feature your character receives when they reach that
level. The 1st-level entry includes a reminder to select
your ancestry and background.
Class Features
This section presents all the abilities the class grants your
character. An ability gained at a higher level lists the

required level next to the ability’s name. All classes include
the class features detailed below, and each class also gets
special class features specific to it. Many class features
require you to choose between options. Unless the specific
ability states otherwise, such decisions can’t be changed
without retraining (as explained on page 440).
Class Feats
This section specifies the levels at which your character
gains class feats—special feats that only members of that
class can access. Class feats are granted beginning at 1st
or 2nd level, depending on the class. Specific class feats
are detailed at the end of each class entry.
Skill Feats
This section specifies the levels at which your character
gains feats with the skill trait, called skill feats. Skill
feats can be found in Chapter 5: Feats, beginning on
page 248. At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, most
classes gain a skill feat, though rogues gain them earlier
and more often. Your character must be trained in the
corresponding skill to take a skill feat.
General Feats
This section specifies the levels at which your character
gains general feats. Most classes grant a general feat at 3rd
level and every 4 levels thereafter. At each of these levels,
you can select any general feat (including skill feats) as
long as your character qualifies for it. More information
can be found in Chapter 5: Feats (page 248).
Skill Increases
This section specifies the levels at which your character
can increase their proficiency rank in a skill. At 3rd level
and every 2 levels thereafter, most classes grant a skill
increase, though rogues gain them earlier and more often.
Your character can use a skill increase to either become
trained in one skill in which they’re untrained or become
an expert in one skill in which they’re already trained.
If your character is at least 7th level, they can use a skill
increase to become a master of a skill in which they’re
already an expert. If they’re at least 15th level, they can
use an increase to become legendary in a skill in which
they’re already a master.
Attribute Boosts
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, your character
boosts four different attribute modifiers. This is described
briefly in the class. For the full details on attribute modifiers
and applying them during character creation, see page 19.
Ancestry Feats
This section serves as a reminder of the ancestry feats
your character gains at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels.
Ancestry feats are detailed in each ancestry entry in
Chapter 2, which begins on page 240.
Bard Page 94
An artist and a scholar, the bard uses performance
and esoteric learning to bolster their companions and
foil their enemies. Sometimes sneaky and quite often
charming, the bard adventures with pizzazz and talent
backed up by an impressive repertoire of occult magic.
Lem
Quick to side with the underdog, Lem, the
halfling bard, has learned that his most powerful
traits are his optimism and sense of humor.

Cleric Page 108
The cleric is dedicated to the worship of a single
deity and draws divine magic from this devotion. Clerics
can be vastly different depending on who they worship,
and whether they’re cloistered clerics who pursue one
of their deity’s domains or war priests who serve as the
sword arm of their god.
Kyra
The human cleric Kyra has sworn her life and
sword to Sarenrae, goddess of the sun, and her
hand in marriage to the rogue Merisiel.

Druid Page 122
The druid walks the wild, primordial places of
the world without fear, harnessing the primal magic of
nature and controlling it with calm purpose. A devotee of
the wilderness, the druid finds nourishment in its power,
allies among its creatures, and strength in its fury.
Lini
To experience all the wonders of nature, the
gnome druid Lini travels with her closest friend,
the snow leopard Droogami.

Rogue Page 164
Cunning and quick, the rogue brings skill and
expertise few of their comrades can match. In battle,
they excel at sneak attacks and ambushes. Their racket
gives them the tools they need to get the job done, and
their wide array of skill choices lets them specialize as
they see fit.
Merisiel
The elf rogue Merisiel plans carefully but
ultimately finds most problems are solved by
daggers.

Fighter Page 136
With calculated daring and fearless
determination, the fighter confronts their enemies while
defending allies from harm. A master of the battlefield,
the fighter is quick to exploit opportunities and strike
any who stumble within reach of their blade or bow.
Valeros
Despite an earned reputation as a scofflaw, the
human fighter Valeros is fiercely loyal to his
friends and the Accidental God, Cayden Cailean.

Witch Page 178
The witch is a versatile spellcaster who learns
their magic from a familiar, sent to them by a powerful
and mysterious patron. The witch’s mastery of potent
hexes from their patron allows them to supplement their
other spells with special tricks to solve any problem.
Feiya
Seeking to understand the source of her magic,
the human witch Feiya is guided by her familiar
Daji more than the vague emotions of her patron.
Ranger Page 152
Resourceful and cunning, the ranger is a hunter,
tracker, and warrior who preserves the natural world and
protects civilization from its ravages. Whether they use a
bow, crossbow, a pair of weapons, or snares, the ranger is
a fearsome enemy and great ally in the wild.
Harsk
With keen eyes and the patience of an
experienced hunter, the dwarf ranger Harsk
finds himself most at home under the wide skies.

Wizard Page 192
The wizard is the arcane master of spellcasting,
plucking incredible power from reality through
complicated spell formulas. They stride with confidence,
without need for armor or weapons, enacting their will
upon the world and bringing woe upon their enemies.
Ezren
The human wizard Ezren jumped into the study
of magic late in life. He relies on this experience
as much as his new arcane mastery.
BARD
You are a master of artistry, a scholar of hidden secrets, and a captivating
persuader. Using powerful performances, you influence minds and elevate souls
to new levels of heroics. You might use your powers to become a charismatic leader,
or perhaps you might instead be a counselor, manipulator, scholar, scoundrel, or
virtuoso. While your versatility leads some to consider you a beguiling ne’er-do-well and a
jack-of-all-trades, it’s dangerous to dismiss you as a master of none.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Charisma
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to Charisma.
HIT POINTS
8 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Expert in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Occultism
Trained in Performance
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 4 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in martial weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in unarmored defense
SPELLS
Trained in spell attack modifier
Trained in spell DC
CLASS DC
Trained in bard class DC
During combat encounters...
You use magical performances to alter the odds in favor of your allies. You
confidently alternate between attacks, healing, and helpful spells as needed.
During social encounters...
You persuade, prevaricate, and threaten with ease.
While exploring...
You’re a font of knowledge, folktales, legends, and lore that provide a deeper
context and helpful reconnaissance for the group’s adventure. Your spells
and performances inspire your allies to greater discovery and success.
In downtime...
You can earn money and prestige with your performances, gaining a name for
yourself and acquiring patrons. Eventually, tales of your talents and triumphs
might attract other bards to study your techniques in a bardic college.
You might...
• Have a passion for your art so strong that you forge a spiritual
connection with it.
• Take point when tact and nonviolent solutions are required.
• Follow your muse, whether it’s a mysterious fey creature, philosophical
concept, psychic force, or deity of art or music, and with its aid learn
secret lore that few others possess.
Others probably...
• Relish the opportunity to invite you to social events, either as a
performer or guest, but consider you to be something of a curiosity in
their social circles.
• Underestimate you compared to other spellcasters, believing you are
little more than a foppish minstrel and overlooking the subtle power of
your magic.
• Respond favorably to your social charm and abilities but remain
suspicious of your beguiling magic.
BARD ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1 Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
bard spellcasting, initial proficiencies, spell
repertoire, composition spells, muse
2 Bard feat, skill feat
3 2nd-rank spells, general feat, reflex expertise,
signature spells, skill increase
4 Bard feat, skill feat
5 3rd-rank spells, attribute boosts, ancestry feat,
skill increase
6 Bard feat, skill feat
7 4th-rank spells, expert spellcaster, general feat,
skill increase
8 Bard feat, skill feat
9 5th-rank spells, ancestry feat, fortitude
expertise, performer’s heart, skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, bard feat, skill feat
11 6th-rank spells, bard weapon expertise,
general feat, skill increase, vigilant senses
12 Bard feat, skill feat
13 7th-rank spells, ancestry feat, light armor
expertise, skill increase, weapon specialization
14 Bard feat, skill feat
15 8th-rank spells, attribute boosts, general feat,
master spellcaster, skill increase
16 Bard feat, skill feat
17 9th-rank spells, ancestry feat, greater
performer’s heart, skill increase
18 Bard feat, skill feat
19 General feat, legendary spellcaster, magnum
opus, skill increase
20 Attribute boosts, bard feat, skill feat
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a bard. Abilities gained at higher
levels list the requisite levels next to the features’ names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background. These are described in Chapter 2.
Attribute Boosts
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have four free boosts to different attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four
free boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute
modifier is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to
increase it; you get a partial boost and must boost that
attribute again at a later level to increase it by 1.
Bard Spellcasting
You draw upon magic from esoteric knowledge. You are a
spellcaster and can cast spells of the occult tradition using
the Cast a Spell activity (see Casting Spells on page 299).

As a bard, when you cast spells, your incantations might
be musical riffs or clever limericks, your gestures might
incorporate dance and dramatic pantomiming, and you
might accompany your spellcasting by playing a musical
instrument.
Each day, you can cast up to two 1st-rank spells. You
must know spells to cast them, and you learn them via
the spell repertoire class feature. The number of spells
you can cast each day is called your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a bard, your number of
spells per day increases, as does the highest rank of spells
you can cast, as shown on the Bard Spells per Day table
on page 97.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell
attack to see how effective they are or have your enemies
roll against your spell DC (typically by attempting a
saving throw). Since your key attribute is Charisma,
your spell attack modifiers and spell DCs use your
Charisma modifier. Details on calculating these statistics
appear on page 403.
Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd rank and higher, you
can fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-rank
spells. This increases the spell’s rank, heightening it
to match the spell slot. You must have a spell in your
spell repertoire at the rank you want to cast in order
to heighten it to that rank. Many spells have specific
improvements when they are heightened to certain ranks
(page 297). The signature spells class feature lets you
heighten certain spells freely.
Cantrips
Some of your spells are cantrips. A cantrip is a special
type of spell that doesn’t use spell slots. You can cast a
cantrip at will, any number of times per day. A cantrip
is automatically heightened to half your level rounded
up—this is usually equal to the highest rank of bard
spell slot you have. For example, as a 1st-level bard,
your cantrips are 1st-rank spells, and as a 5th-level bard,
your cantrips are 3rd-rank spells.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These are noted at the
start of this class.
Spell Repertoire
The collection of spells you can cast is called your spell
repertoire. At 1st level, you learn two 1st-rank occult spells
of your choice and five occult cantrips of your choice. You
choose these from the common spells from the occult list
(page 309) or from other occult spells to which you have
access. You can cast any spell in your spell repertoire by
using a spell slot of an appropriate spell rank.
You add to this spell repertoire as you increase in level.
BARD SPELLS PER DAY
Your Spell Rank
Rank Cantrips 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 10th
1 5 2 — — — — — — — — —
2 5 3 — — — — — — — — —
3 5 3 2 — — — — — — — —
4 5 3 3 — — — — — — — —
5 5 3 3 2 — — — — — — —
6 5 3 3 3 — — — — — — —
7 5 3 3 3 2 — — — — — —
8 5 3 3 3 3 — — — — — —
9 5 3 3 3 3 2 — — — — —
10 5 3 3 3 3 3 — — — — —
11 5 3 3 3 3 3 2 — — — —
12 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 — — — —
13 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 — — —
14 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 — — —
15 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 — —
16 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 — —
17 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 —
18 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 —
19 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 1*
20 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 1*
* The magnum opus class feature gives you a 10th-rank spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots.
Each time you get a spell slot (see the Bard Spells per Day
table), you add a spell to your spell repertoire of the same
rank. At 2nd level, you select another 1st-rank spell; at
3rd level, you select two 2nd-rank spells, and so on. When
you add spells, you might add a higher-rank version of
a spell you already have, so you can cast a heightened
version of that spell.
Though you gain them at the same rate, your spell slots
and the spells in your spell repertoire are separate. If a
feat or other ability adds a spell to your spell repertoire,
it wouldn’t give you another spell slot, and vice versa.
Swapping Spells in Your Repertoire
As you gain new spells in your repertoire, you might want
to replace some of the spells you previously learned. Each
time you gain a level and learn new spells, you can swap
out one of your old spells for a different spell of the same
rank. This spell can be a cantrip. You can also swap out
spells by retraining during downtime (page 440).
Composition Spells
You can infuse your performances with magic to create
unique effects called compositions. Compositions are
a special type of spell that often require you to use the
Performance skill when casting them. Composition spells
are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus
spell, and you start with a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. You
refill your focus pool during your daily preparations, and
you can regain 1 Focus Point by spending 10 minutes using
the Refocus activity to perform, write a new composition,
or otherwise engage your muse.

Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up, much like cantrips. Focus spells don’t
require spell slots, and you can’t cast them using spell
slots. Taking feats can give you more focus spells and
increase the size of your focus pool, though your focus
pool can never hold more than 3 Focus Points. The full
rules for focus spells appear on page 298.
You learn the counter performance composition
spell (page 370), protecting against auditory and visual
effects.
Composition Cantrips
Composition cantrips are special composition spells that
don’t cost Focus Points, so you can use them as often
as you like. Composition cantrips are in addition to
the cantrips you choose with bard spellcasting. Unlike
other cantrips, you can’t swap out composition cantrips
gained from bard feats at a later level, unless you swap
out the specific feat via retraining (page 440).
You learn the courageous anthem composition cantrip
(page 370), which boosts your allies’ attacks, damage,
and defense against fear.
Muses
As a bard, you select one muse at 1st level. This muse
leads you to great things and might be someone
you know, a supernatural creature, location, deity,
philosophy, or captivating mystery. Depending on the
type of inspiration you receive, your 1st-level muse
grants you a specific 1st-level bard feat and adds a spell
to your repertoire.
In addition to this, each muse opens the door to many
later bard feats. If one type of inspiration is not enough
to represent your muse, consider the Multifarious Muse
feat (page 101).
Enigma
Your muse is a mystery, driving you to uncover the hidden
secrets of life and the multiverse. These muses can be
people you cannot fully grasp, texts layered deeply with
symbolism, or emotional paradoxes that underline a
lifetime’s work. If your muse is an otherworldly creature, it
might be a mysterious aeon or an occult dragon; if a deity,
it might be Irori or Nethys. Art inspired by an enigma
muse could be cryptic, eerie, or laden with speculation
and conspiracy.
As a bard with the enigma muse, you support your
allies by providing knowledge alongside inspiration and
occult support.
Muse Feat Bardic Lore
Muse Spell sure strike (page 361)

Maestro
Your muse constantly inspires you to greater heights
of artistic prowess. For many bards, a teacher or rival
fills this role, although some set their sights higher and
attempt to surpass great composers of the past or blaze a
new trail entirely. If your muse is a supernatural creature,
it might be one who loves to perform, such as a choral
angel or a lyrakien azata; if a deity, it might be Shelyn.
Art inspired by a maestro muse is precise and inventive, a
formalist achievement.
As a bard with a maestro muse, you are an inspiration
to your allies and confident of your musical and
oratorical abilities.
Muse Feat Lingering Composition
Muse Spell soothe (page 357)
Polymath
Your muse is a jack of all trades, flitting between skills and
pursuits. Some bards are constantly moved by new muses
or draw their inspiration from an idealized being, whether
it’s based on a real person or purely philosophical. If your
muse is a single creature, it might be an eclectic creature
like a fey or one who’s learned a lot over a long lifespan;
if a deity, it might be Desna or Calistria. Art inspired
by a polymath muse is restless, with each composition
exhibiting new techniques and an ever-evolving style.
As a bard with a polymath muse, you are interested in
a wide array of topics but rarely dedicated to any one,
and you rarely make up your mind—you want to try
everything.
Muse Feat Versatile Performance
Muse Spell phantasmal minion (page 349)
Warrior
The battlefield is your stage, the clang of steel, your song.
Your muse has seen countless battles, whether reveling in
combat or resigned to its necessity. An individual soldier
or general might inspire you, but so might a battlefield
or weapon with a particularly profound history. If your
muse is a creature, it might be an otherworldly soldier,
such as an archon or devil soldier. If it’s a deity, it might
be Gorum. Art inspired by a warrior muse is triumphant
and strident, often detailing epic battles.
As a bard with a warrior muse, you train for battle
in addition to performance, and you prepare your allies
for the dangers of combat. You might even wade into the
thick of things with them.
Muse Feat Martial Performance
Muse Spell fear (page 331)
Bard Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every even-numbered level, you gain a
bard class feat. These begin on page 100.
Skill Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 4 and
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the
corresponding skill to select a skill feat.
General Feats 3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
Reflex Expertise 3rd
You’ve developed a knack for dodging danger. Your
proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to expert.
Signature Spells 3rd
Experience allows you to cast some spells more flexibly.
For each spell rank you have access to, choose one spell of
that rank to be a signature spell. You don’t need to learn
heightened versions of signature spells separately; instead,
you can heighten these spells freely. If you’ve learned a
signature spell at a higher rank than its minimum, you
can also cast all its lower-rank versions without learning
those separately. If you swap out a signature spell, you
can choose a replacement signature spell of the same spell
rank at which you learned the previous spell. You can also
retrain specifically to change a signature spell to a different
spell of that rank without swapping any spells; this takes as
much time as retraining a spell normally does.
Skill Increases 3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
skill increase. You can use this increase to either become
trained in one skill you’re untrained in or become an
expert in one skill in which you’re already trained.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a
skill in which you’re already a master.
Ancestry Feats 5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Expert Spellcaster 7th
Your magical techniques grow stronger. Your proficiency
ranks for spell attack modifiers and spell DCs increase
to expert.
Fortitude Expertise 9th
Your physique has grown hardy in your adventures. Your
proficiency rank for Fortitude saves increases to expert.
Performer’s Heart 9th
The greatest performances require an understanding
of your own mind and flawless concentration. Your
proficiency rank for Will saves increases to master.

When you roll a success on a Will save, you get a critical
success instead.
Bard Weapon Expertise 11th
You have become thoroughly adept with bardic weapons.
Your proficiency rank for martial weapons, simple
weapons, and unarmed attacks increases to expert.
When you critically succeed at an attack roll using one
of these weapons or an unarmed attack while one of your
compositions is active, you apply the critical specialization
effect for that weapon or unarmed attack.
Perception Mastery 11th
You’ve developed keen awareness and attention to detail.
Your proficiency rank for Perception increases to master.
Light Armor Expertise 13th
You’ve learned how to dodge while wearing light or
no armor. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and
unarmored defense increase to expert.
Weapon Specialization 13th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master and
4 if you’re legendary.
Master Spellcaster 15th
You pluck the threads of magic like the strings of a harp.
Your proficiency ranks for spell attack modifiers and spell
DCs increase to master.
KEY TERMS

You’ll see the following key terms in many bard class
features.
Composition: To cast a composition cantrip or focus
spell, you use a type of Performance (page 243). If the
spell requires an auditory performance, you might recite
a poem, sing a song, or perform a dramatic monologue. If
the spell requires a visual performance, you might dance
or pantomime. You can cast only one composition spell
each turn, and you can have only one active at a time.
If you cast a new composition spell, any ongoing effects
from your previous composition spell end immediately.
Spellshape: Actions with the spellshape trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come
from spellshape feats. You must use a spellshape action
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of
the spellshape action. Any additional effects added by a
spellshape action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the
spellshape action itself.
BARD FEATS BY NAME
Feat Level
Accompany 8
All in my Head 18
Allegro 14
Annotate Composition 10
Assured Knowledge 6
Bardic Lore 1
Call and Response 8
Cantrip Expansion 2
Combat Reading 4
Courageous Advance 4
Courageous Assault 10
Courageous Onslaught 16
Deep Lore 18
Defensive Coordination 6
Directed Audience 2
Dirge of Doom 6
Discordant Voice 18
Earworm 14
Eclectic Polymath 12
Eclectic Skill 8
Educate Allies 6
Effortless Concentration 16
Emotional Push 2
Enigma’s Knowledge 12
Esoteric Polymath 2
Eternal Composition 18
Fatal Aria 20
Fortissimo Composition 8
Harmonize 6
House of Imaginary Walls 10
Hymn of Healing 1
Impossible Polymath 18
In Tune 4
Inspirational Focus 12

Know-It-All 8
Lingering Composition 1
Loremaster’s Etude 2
Martial Performance 1
Melodious Spell 4
Multifarious Muse 2
Ode to Ouroboros 10
Perfect Encore 20
Pied Piping 20
Quickened Casting 10
Rallying Anthem 4
Reach Spell 1
Reflexive Courage 8
Resounding Finale 16
Reverberate 12
Ritual Researcher 4
Shared Assault 12
Song of Marching 6
Song of Strength 2
Soothing Ballad 14
Soulsight 8
Steady Spellcasting 6
Studious Capacity 16
Symphony of the Muse 20
Symphony of the Unfettered Heart 10
Triple Time 4
Triumphant Inspiration 14
True Hypercognition 14
Ultimate Polymath 20
Unusual Composition 10
Uplifting Overture 2
Versatile Performance 1
Versatile Signature 4
Vigorous Anthem 14
Well-Versed 1
Greater Performer’s Heart 17th
Your performances warp the mind and cause emotions
to flower, and understanding how to do this also forges
an incomparable understanding of your own mind. Your
proficiency rank for Will saves increases to legendary.
When you roll a critical failure on a Will save, you get a
failure instead. When you fail a Will save against an effect
that deals damage, you take half damage.
Magnum Opus 19th
You have tuned your spellcasting to the highest caliber.
Add two common 10th-rank occult spells to your
repertoire. You gain a single 10th-rank spell slot you can
use to cast these spells using bard spellcasting. Unlike
other spell slots, you can’t use 10th-rank slots with
abilities that give you more spell slots or that let you
cast spells without expending spell slots. You don’t gain
more 10th-rank spells as you level up, but you can take
the Perfect Encore feat (page 107) to gain a second slot.

Legendary Spellcaster 19th
Your command of magic is the stuff of legends. Your
proficiency ranks for spell attack modifiers and spell
DCs increase to legendary.
Bard Feats
At every level that you gain a bard feat, you can select one
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites
before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
BARDIC LORE FEAT 1
BARD
Prerequisites enigma muse
Your studies make you informed on every subject. You are
trained in Bardic Lore, a special Lore skill that can be used only
to Recall Knowledge, but on any topic. If you have legendary
proficiency in Occultism, you gain expert proficiency in
Bardic Lore, but you can’t increase your proficiency rank in
Bardic Lore by any other means.
HYMN OF HEALING FEAT 1
BARD
You learn the hymn of healing composition spell (page 370),
which imbues your music with rich melodies that help your
allies recover from harm.
LINGERING COMPOSITION FEAT 1
BARD
Prerequisites maestro muse
By adding a flourish, you make your compositions last longer.
You learn the lingering composition focus spell (page 371).
MARTIAL PERFORMANCE FEAT 1
BARD
Prerequisites warrior muse
Your muse has taught you how to handle a wider variety of
weapons than most bards, empowering you to effortlessly
blend your performance into combat tools. When you
have a courageous anthem composition cantrip active, and
you damage an enemy with a Strike, the spell’s duration is
extended by 1 round. You can extend an individual casting
only once in this way.
If you gain the rallying anthem or song of strength
composition cantrips, you can apply this benefit to those
cantrips as well.
REACH SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
BARD CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
You can extend your spells’ range. If the next action you use
is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s range
by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if the
spell normally has a range of touch, you extend its range to
30 feet.
VERSATILE PERFORMANCE FEAT 1
BARD
Prerequisites polymath muse
You can rely on the grandeur of your performances rather
than ordinary social skills. You can use Performance
instead of Diplomacy to Make an Impression and instead
of Intimidation to Demoralize. You can also use an acting
Performance instead of Deception to Impersonate.
In addition, you can use your proficiency rank in
Performance to meet the prerequisites of skill feats that
require a particular proficiency rank in Deception, Diplomacy,
or Intimidation.
WELL-VERSED FEAT 1
BARD
You’re resilient to performative influences that aren’t your
own. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws
against effects with the auditory, illusion, linguistic, sonic,
or visual traits.

2ND LEVEL
CANTRIP EXPANSION FEAT 2
BARD
Study broadens your range of simple spells. Add two
additional cantrips from your spell list to your repertoire.
DIRECTED AUDIENCE FEAT 2
BARD
You can shape the area of your composition spells.
Whenever you cast a composition spell whose area is an
emanation, you can change the spell’s area to a cone 10
feet larger, to a maximum of twice the original area. For
example, you could modify a composition spell that affects
a 30-foot emanation to affect a 40-foot cone, but a 5-foot
emanation could only become a 10-foot cone.
EMOTIONAL PUSH [reaction] FEAT 2
BARD CONCENTRATE
Trigger An enemy you’re aware of fails its save against an
emotion spell.
You prepare to take advantage of your enemy’s sudden
change in emotions. The target is off-guard against your next
attack before the end of your next turn.
ESOTERIC POLYMATH FEAT 2
BARD
Prerequisites polymath muse
You keep a book of occult spells, similar to a wizard’s spellbook,
and can use its spells to supplement your spell repertoire. Add
all the spells in your repertoire to this book for free. You can
use the Occultism skill to Learn Spells (page 230) and add
them to your spellbook by paying the appropriate cost.
During your daily preparations, choose any one spell from
your book of occult spells. If that spell is already in your spell
repertoire, you can treat it as an additional signature spell that
day. If it isn’t in your repertoire, treat it as though it were until
your next daily preparations.
LOREMASTER’S ETUDE FEAT 2
BARD FORTUNE
Prerequisites enigma muse
You magically unlock memories, making them easier to recall.
You learn the loremaster’s etude composition spell (page 371).
MULTIFARIOUS MUSE FEAT 2
BARD
Your muse doesn’t fall into a single label. Choose a type of
muse other than that of your own. You gain a 1st-level feat
that requires that muse, and your muse is now also a muse of
that type, allowing you to take feats with the other muse as
a prerequisite. You don’t gain any of the other effects of the
muse you chose.
Special You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you
do, you must choose a different type of muse other than
that of your own.
Sample Bard
DANCER

Through myriad styles of dance, you inspire your allies
and channel otherworldly magic.
Attributes

Make Charisma highest, followed by Dexterity. Add to
Constitution for more health and to Intelligence for skills.

Skills

Acrobatics, Athletics, Diplomacy, Medicine, Occultism,
Performance

Muse

Maestro

Higher-Level Feats

Uplifting Overture (2nd), Triple Time (4th), Allegro (14th)

Spell Repertoire

1st dizzying colors, illusory disguise, soothe; Cantrips
detect magic, figment, light, read aura, telekinetic hand
SONG OF STRENGTH FEAT 2
BARD
Prerequisites warrior muse
Your performances inspire strength in your allies to aid them
at physical tasks. You learn the song of strength composition
cantrip (page 371).
UPLIFTING OVERTURE FEAT 2
BARD
Prerequisites maestro muse
You learn the uplifting overture composition cantrip (page
372), which aids your allies’ skills with the inspiring nature
of your performance.
4TH LEVEL
COMBAT READING [one-action] FEAT 4
BARD SECRET
You use a performer’s cold reading techniques, aura reading,
and other tricks to discover your foe’s strengths and
weaknesses. The GM rolls a secret Occultism check for you
against the Deception or Stealth DC (whichever is higher)
of an enemy of your choice who is not concealed from you,
hidden from you, or undetected by you, and who is engaged
in combat. The GM might apply a penalty for the distance
between you and the enemy. The enemy is then temporarily
immune to your Combat Reading for 1 day.
Critical Success The GM chooses and tells you two of the
following pieces of information about the enemy: which of
the enemy’s weaknesses is highest, which of the enemy’s
saving throws has the lowest modifier, one immunity the
enemy has, or which of the enemy’s resistances is highest.
In the event of a tie, the GM should pick one at random.
Success The GM chooses one piece of information from the
above list to tell you about the enemy.
Critical Failure The GM gives you false information (the GM
makes up the information).
COURAGEOUS ADVANCE [one-action] FEAT 4
AUDITORY BARD CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites warrior muse
With a rousing call, you exhort an ally to advance. If your
next action is to cast the courageous anthem composition
cantrip, one ally of your choice who gains a status bonus
from the spell can immediately use their reaction to Stride.
IN TUNE [one-action] FEAT 4
BARD CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites maestro muse
You attune your great skill in performing to another, granting
them a small measure of your skill as though anyone could
do it. If your next action is casting a composition spell with
an emanation area, its area spreads from a willing ally of your
choice within 60 feet instead of you.
If you have Directed Audience, you can have that cone
originate from the ally instead.
MELODIOUS SPELL [one-action] FEAT 4
BARD CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
You subtly weave your spellcasting into a performance. If
the next action you use is to Cast a Spell, the spell gains
the subtle trait, hiding the shining runes, sparks of magic,
and other manifestations that would usually give away your
spellcasting. The trait hides only the spell’s spellcasting
actions and manifestations, not its effects, so an observer
might still see a ray streak out from you or see you vanish
into thin air.
As part of using Melodious Spell, you can choose to Create
a Diversion, Demoralize, Perform, or Request. If you do so,
the spell you cast must have the auditory, emotion, sonic, or
visual trait to gain the subtle trait.
RALLYING ANTHEM FEAT 4
BARD
You learn the rallying anthem composition cantrip (page 371),
which protects you and allies.
RITUAL RESEARCHER FEAT 4
UNCOMMON BARD
Prerequisites enigma muse, expert in Occultism
Careful research into the art of rituals has made you better
at performing them. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to all
primary and secondary checks you attempt as part of casting
a ritual.
TRIPLE TIME FEAT 4
BARD
You learn the triple time composition cantrip (page 372),
which speeds up you and your allies for a round.
VERSATILE SIGNATURE FEAT 4
BARD
Prerequisites polymath muse
While most bards are known for certain signature
performances and spells, you’re always tweaking your
available repertoire. When you make your daily preparations,
you can change one of your signature spells to a different
spell of that rank from your repertoire.
6TH LEVEL
ASSURED KNOWLEDGE FEAT 6
BARD FORTUNE
Prerequisites enigma muse
You can procure information with confidence. Whenever you
Recall Knowledge using any skill (including Bardic Lore), you
can forgo rolling your check to instead receive a result of
10 + your proficiency bonus (don’t apply any other bonuses,
penalties, or modifiers).
As long as you are an expert in a skill, you meet the
prerequisites for the Automatic Knowledge skill feat (page
252) for that skill, even if you don’t have the Assurance feat
for that skill.

DEFENSIVE COORDINATION [one-action] FEAT 6
AUDITORY BARD CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites warrior muse, Rallying Anthem
Like the storied heroes who persist in the face of
overwhelming odds, you and your allies will hold the line. If
your next action is to cast the rallying anthem composition
cantrip, you can Raise a Shield, and one ally of your choice
who gains a status bonus from the spell can immediately use
their reaction to Raise a Shield.
DIRGE OF DOOM FEAT 6
BARD
You learn the dirge of doom composition cantrip (page 370),
which frightens your enemies and keeps them from fully
recovering from their fear.
EDUCATE ALLIES [reaction] FEAT 6
BARD CONCENTRATE
Prerequisites Well-Versed
Trigger An ally benefiting from one of your composition
spells is subject to an effect with the auditory, illusion,
linguistic, sonic, or visual trait.
You tweak the properties of your composition spell to convey
a bit of your defensive knowledge. All allies affected by your

composition spell gain your +1 circumstance bonus from Well-
Versed until the start of your next turn. Teaching your allies

also bolsters your own skills; your personal circumstance
bonus from Well-Versed also increases to +2 until the start
of your next turn.
HARMONIZE [one-action] FEAT 6
BARD CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites maestro muse
You can perform multiple compositions simultaneously,
typically by performing in multiple ways at the same time,
using special vocal techniques to double your voice, or
creating occult magic that replicates your song or speech.
If your next action is to cast a composition, it becomes a
harmonized composition. Unlike a normal composition, a
harmonized composition doesn’t end if you cast another
composition, and you can cast another composition on the
same turn as a harmonized one. Casting another harmonized
composition ends any harmonized composition you already
have in effect.
SONG OF MARCHING FEAT 6
BARD
You learn the song of marching composition cantrip (page
371), which enables you and your allies to cross vast
distances without strain.
STEADY SPELLCASTING FEAT 6
BARD
You don’t lose spells easily. If a reaction would disrupt
your spellcasting action, attempt a DC 15 flat check. If you
succeed, your action isn’t disrupted.
8TH LEVEL
ACCOMPANY [reaction] FEAT 8
BARD CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Trigger An ally within 30 feet Casts a Spell.
You use your performance to supplement an ally’s
spellcasting, providing magical energy for their spell in their
stead. Attempt a Performance check, using a very high DC
for the ally’s level (GM Core 53), and either spend a Focus
Point (if the triggering spell is a focus spell) or expend a spell
slot at least 1 rank higher than the triggering spell. If you
succeed at your Performance check, your ally’s spell doesn’t
cost the Focus Point or spell slot that ally would normally
need to spend.
CALL AND RESPONSE [one-action] FEAT 8
AUDITORY BARD CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
Your composition takes the form of a call-and-response chant
that lets your allies continue the effect without you. If your
next action is to cast a composition cantrip with a duration of
1 round, it becomes a call. While the spell is active, one ally of
your choice affected by the spell can respond to your call as
a single action that has the auditory and concentrate traits
to extend the spell’s duration by 1 round. Only one ally can
respond to a given call, and responding to the ally’s response
has no additional effect.

ECLECTIC SKILL FEAT 8
BARD
Prerequisites polymath muse, master in Occultism
Your broad experiences translate to a range of skills. Your
proficiency bonus to untrained skill checks is equal to your
level. You can attempt any skill check that normally requires
you to be trained, even if you are untrained. If you have
legendary proficiency in Occultism, you can attempt any skill
check that normally requires you to have expert proficiency,
even if untrained or trained.
FORTISSIMO COMPOSITION FEAT 8
BARD
Prerequisites maestro muse
Your anthems grow louder and more potent, bolstered by
your muse’s power. You learn the fortissimo composition
spellshape focus spell (page 370).
KNOW-IT-ALL FEAT 8
BARD
Prerequisites enigma muse
When you succeed at a check to Recall Knowledge, you
gain additional information or context. When you critically
succeed at a check to Recall Knowledge, you get additional
information or context or can ask an additional follow-up
question (the GM chooses which).
REFLEXIVE COURAGE [reaction] FEAT 8
AUDITORY BARD CONCENTRATE
Prerequisites warrior muse
Trigger A creature within your reach uses an auditory effect,
manipulate action, or move action; makes a ranged attack;
or leaves a square during its move action.
Requirements You are affected by courageous anthem.
You bellow a ferocious call to arms, inspiring yourself to
lash out at a foe. Make a melee Strike against the triggering
creature. If the attack is a critical hit and the trigger was a
manipulate action, the action is disrupted.
SOULSIGHT FEAT 8
BARD
Your muse has opened your senses to the world beyond. You
gain spiritsense as an imprecise sense with a range of 60
feet. Spiritsense enables you to sense the spirits of creatures,
including living creatures, most non-mindless undead, and
haunts within the listed range. As with your hearing and
other imprecise senses, you still need to Seek to locate an
undetected creature.
As spiritsense detects spiritual essence, not physical
bodies, it can detect spirits projected by spells such as
project image or possessing otherwise soulless objects. It
can’t detect soulless bodies, constructs, or objects, and like
most senses, it doesn’t penetrate through solid objects.
10TH LEVEL
ANNOTATE COMPOSITION FEAT 10
BARD EXPLORATION LINGUISTIC
By putting composition to paper, you can create a source of
stirring words or song that others can read and understand.
You spend 10 minutes and 1 Focus Point to transpose a
composition spell on a special scroll that you or another
creature can later activate. This composition spell must take a
single action to cast. If the chosen composition spell requires
a Performance check as part of the casting, the GM rolls this
check as a secret check when you annotate your score.
If you have fortissimo composition or lingering composition,
you can also use one of those spells to modify the annotated
composition, provided the annotated composition can benefit
from the modification. The GM rolls the secret Performance
check. If you do, you spend an additional Focus Point, even if
the secret check fails.
Any creature that can read the language you used when
annotating your composition can Activate the Item by
spending a single action, which has the concentrate trait.
This produces the effects of the composition as though the
activating creature had Cast the Spell.
A composition you create this way loses its power the
next time you make your daily preparations. While the
composition is in your possession, you can render it inert
using a single action that has the concentrate trait. You can’t
regain the Focus Points you spent to create the annotated
composition until it is activated or loses its magic.

COURAGEOUS ASSAULT [one-action] FEAT 10
AUDITORY BARD CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites warrior muse
With a mighty shout, you can stir an ally to attack. If your
next action is to cast the courageous anthem composition
cantrip, one ally of your choice who gains a status bonus
from the spell can immediately use their reaction to make a
melee Strike.
HOUSE OF IMAGINARY WALLS FEAT 10
BARD
You erect an imaginary barrier others believe to be real. You
learn the house of imaginary walls composition cantrip (page
370).
ODE TO OUROBOROS FEAT 10
BARD
You learn the ode to ouroboros composition spell (page 371),
which enables you to temporarily spare your allies from
death.
QUICKENED CASTING [free-action] FEAT 10
BARD CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
Frequency once per day
If your next action is to cast a bard cantrip or a bard spell
that is at least 2 ranks lower than the highest-rank bard spell
slot you have, reduce the number of actions to cast it by 1
(minimum 1 action).
SYMPHONY OF THE UNFETTERED HEART FEAT 10
BARD
You learn the symphony of the unfettered heart composition
spell (page 371), which enables you to protect an ally against
incapacitating conditions.
UNUSUAL COMPOSITION [one-action] FEAT 10
BARD CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites polymath muse
You can translate the emotion and power of a composition to
other mediums. If your next action is to cast a composition
spell that is auditory or visual, you can have it affect creatures
who can witness it with any sense, not just those the traits
indicate, even including special senses like tremorsense. You
can choose to exclude any senses you choose.
12TH LEVEL
ECLECTIC POLYMATH FEAT 12
BARD
Prerequisites Esoteric Polymath
Your flexible mind can quickly shift from one spell to another.
If you add a spell to your repertoire during your daily
preparations using Esoteric Polymath, when you prepare
again, you can choose to keep the new spell from Esoteric
Polymath in your repertoire and instead lose access to
another spell of the same rank in your repertoire.
ENIGMA’S KNOWLEDGE FEAT 12
BARD
Prerequisites Assured Knowledge
Your muse whispers knowledge to you at all the right times.
You gain the benefits of the Automatic Knowledge skill feat with
any skill you can use to Recall Knowledge. As per the special
clause in the Automatic Knowledge feat, you can still only use
Automatic Knowledge once per round.
INSPIRATIONAL FOCUS FEAT 12
BARD
Your connection to your muse has granted you unusual focus.
Whenever you Refocus, completely refill your focus pool.
REVERBERATE [reaction] FEAT 12
BARD
Trigger A creature or hazard would deal sonic damage to you.
You can manipulate the acoustics around you to deflect sonic
damage back at its source. Attempt a Performance check against
the Will DC of the creature or Fortitude DC of a hazard. If the
damage came from a spell, use the creature’s spell DC if it’s lower.
Critical Success You reduce the triggering damage by an amount
up to four times your level. The creature takes sonic damage
equal to the amount of damage you reduced in this way.
Success As critical success, but you reduce the triggering
damage by an amount up to twice your level.
SHARED ASSAULT FEAT 12
BARD
Prerequisites Courageous Assault
In the triumph of battle, you can share the glory with another
ally. When the ally you chose for Courageous Assault critically
succeeds at the Strike granted by that action, another ally affected
by your courageous anthem composition spell can immediately
use a reaction to make a melee Strike. This effect doesn’t continue
to a third ally, even if the second ally also critically succeeds.
14TH LEVEL
ALLEGRO FEAT 14
BARD
You can quicken your allies with a fast-paced performance. You
learn the allegro composition cantrip (page 370).
EARWORM FEAT 14
BARD EXPLORATION
By endlessly repeating a motif, you implant a memorable song
that repeats over and over again in your allies’ heads, preparing
them to respond to it later. Choose a composition cantrip and
spend 10 minutes repeating a melody, chant, speech, series of
motions, or a similar performance that embodies that cantrip. This
activity gains the traits appropriate to the type of performance.
You implant the earworm within all allies who can see or hear you
(as appropriate for the type of performance) for the entire activity.
Once you’ve created the earworm, you can attempt a
Performance check as a free action to activate it. This check uses

the highest Will DC of the earworm’s targets present at the time
of activation. On a success, you cast the cantrip on all allies who
learned the earworm and can perceive your performance; on a
failure, the earworm is corrupted and lost. Because it is based
on the earlier repetitions, you can’t use further free actions like
lingering composition or fortissimo composition to modify the
activated earworm. Allies forget the earworm after it is activated,
if you spend 10 minutes to implant another earworm, or during
your next daily preparations, whichever comes first.
SOOTHING BALLAD FEAT 14
BARD
You soothe your allies’ wounds with the power of performance.
You learn the soothing ballad composition spell (page 371).
TRIUMPHANT INSPIRATION [free-action] FEAT 14
BARD
Prerequisites warrior muse
Trigger You critically hit a foe with a melee weapon Strike or a
melee unarmed attack.
With a triumphant shout, you inspire your allies. You cast
a composition cantrip you know that normally takes a single
action to cast.
TRUE HYPERCOGNITION [one-action] FEAT 14
BARD
Prerequisites enigma muse
Your mind works at an incredible pace. You instantly use up to
five Recall Knowledge actions. If you have any special abilities
or free actions that would normally be triggered when you
Recall Knowledge, you can’t use them for these actions.
VIGOROUS ANTHEM [one-action] FEAT 14
AUDITORY BARD CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
You instill magical vigor in your allies when you inspire them
to attack. If your next action is to cast the courageous anthem
composition cantrip, you and all affected allies gain temporary
HP equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier that last for 1 minute.
16TH LEVEL
COURAGEOUS ONSLAUGHT [one-action] FEAT 16
AUDITORY BARD CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites Courageous Advance, Courageous Assault
You use your performance to orchestrate an onslaught against
your enemies. If your next action is to cast the courageous
anthem composition cantrip, one ally of your choice who gains
a status bonus from the spell can immediately use their reaction
to Stride and then make a melee Strike.
EFFORTLESS CONCENTRATION [free-action] FEAT 16
BARD
Trigger Your turn begins.
You can maintain a spell with hardly a thought. You immediately
gain the effects of the Sustain action, allowing you to extend the
duration of one of your active bard spells.
RESOUNDING FINALE [reaction] FEAT 16
BARD CONCENTRATE
Prerequisites maestro muse
Trigger You or an ally benefiting from your composition spell
would take sonic damage.
You bring your performance to a sudden, dramatic finish,
drowning out other sounds. Your composition spell ends
immediately, and all allies that had been benefiting from the
spell’s effects gain sonic resistance against the triggering
damage equal to twice the composition spell’s rank.
STUDIOUS CAPACITY FEAT 16
BARD
Prerequisites enigma muse, legendary in Occultism
Your continued study of occult magic has increased your
magical capacity, allowing you to cast spells even when it seems
impossible. You can cast one spell each day even after you’ve
run out of spell slots of the appropriate spell rank, but you can’t
use this ability to cast a spell of your highest spell rank.
18TH LEVEL
ALL IN MY HEAD [reaction] FEAT 18
BARD ILLUSION MENTAL
Trigger You would take damage from a Strike or spell that
doesn’t have the death trait or otherwise cause instant death
(such as disintegrate).
Using your occult connections and incredible powers of
persuasion, you convince yourself that the triggering damage
is a figment of your imagination. The damage changes from its
usual damage type to mental damage, and the damaging effect
gains the nonlethal trait. You can’t use this reaction if you are
immune to mental effects or mental damage.
DEEP LORE FEAT 18
BARD
Prerequisites enigma muse, legendary in Occultism
Your repertoire is vast, containing far more spells than usual.
Add one spell to your repertoire of each spell rank you can cast.
DISCORDANT VOICE FEAT 18
BARD SONIC
Prerequisites courageous anthem
Your courageous anthem lets loose a discordant shriek that
imbues your allies’ attacks with powerful sonic reverberations.
While your allies are affected by your courageous anthem, their
weapon Strikes and unarmed attacks deal an additional 1d6
sonic damage.
ETERNAL COMPOSITION FEAT 18
BARD
Prerequisites maestro muse
The world is a stage upon which you are always playing. You are
permanently quickened; you can use your extra action only to
cast a composition cantrip that requires 1 action to cast. While
in exploration mode, you can declare that you are performing an

eligible composition cantrip while using any exploration tactic.
Even before your first turn in a combat encounter, that cantrip
is active as if you had cast it on your previous turn.
IMPOSSIBLE POLYMATH FEAT 18
BARD
Prerequisites trained in Arcana, Nature, or Religion; Esoteric
Polymath
Your esoteric formulas are so unusual that they allow you to
dabble in magic from diverse traditions that other bards don’t
understand. As long as you’re trained in Arcana, you can add
arcane spells to your book from Esoteric Polymath; as long as
you’re trained in Nature, you can add primal spells to your book;
and as long as you are trained in Religion, you can add divine
spells to your book.
Like your other spells in your book, you can add one of
these spells from another tradition to your repertoire as an
occult spell each day using Esoteric Polymath, but you can’t
retain any spells from another tradition when you prepare
again, even if you have Eclectic Polymath.
20TH LEVEL
FATAL ARIA FEAT 20
BARD
Your songs overwhelm the target with unbearable emotion,
potentially striking them dead on the spot. You learn the fatal
aria composition spell (page 370).
PERFECT ENCORE FEAT 20
BARD
Prerequisites magnum opus
You develop another incredible creation. You gain an additional
10th-rank spell slot.
PIED PIPING FEAT 20
BARD
You learn the pied piping composition spell (page 371), which
enables you to control the actions of weak-minded individuals.
SYMPHONY OF THE MUSE FEAT 20
BARD
Prerequisites Harmonize
You have learned how to weave countless performances
together into a solo symphony with multitudinous effects.
You are no longer limited to a single composition each turn
or a single composition at a time; when you use a new
composition, all previous compositions’ effects continue for
their remaining duration.
ULTIMATE POLYMATH FEAT 20
BARD
Prerequisites polymath muse
You can flexibly cast all of your spells, granting a dizzying
array of possible options. All of the spells in your repertoire are
signature spells for you.
CLERIC
Deities work their will upon the world in infinite ways, and you serve as one of
their most stalwart mortal servants. Blessed with divine magic, you live the ideals
of your faith, adorn yourself with the symbols of your church, and train diligently
to wield your deity’s favored weapon. Your spells might protect and heal your allies,
or they might punish foes and enemies of your faith, as your deity wills. Yours is a life of
devotion, spreading the teachings of your faith through both word and deed.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Wisdom
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to Wisdom.
HIT POINTS
8 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Religion
Trained in one skill determined by your
choice of deity
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 2 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in the favored weapon of your
deity. If your deity’s favored weapon is
uncommon, you also gain access to that
weapon.
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Untrained in all armor, though your
doctrine might alter this
Trained in unarmored defense
SPELLS
Trained in spell attack modifier
Trained in spell DC
CLASS DC
Trained in cleric class DC
During combat encounters...
If you’re a warpriest, you balance between casting spells and attacking with
weapons—typically the favored weapon of your deity. If you’re a cloistered
cleric, you primarily cast spells. Most of your spells can boost, protect, or
heal your allies. Depending on your deity, you get extra spells to heal your
allies or harm your enemies.
During social encounters...
You might make diplomatic overtures or deliver impressive speeches, but the
direction you choose is often heavily influenced by your god’s edicts. Because
you’re wise, you also pick up on falsehoods others tell.
While exploring...
You detect nearby magic and interpret any religious writing you come
across. You might also concentrate on a protective spell for your allies in
case of attack. After a battle or hazard, you might heal anyone who was
hurt using magic or medicine.
In downtime...
You might perform services at a temple, travel to spread the word of your
deity, craft holy items, research scripture, celebrate holy days, or even found
a new temple.
You might...
• Visit the temples and holy places sacred to your faith and have an
immediate affinity with other worshippers of your deity.
• Know the teachings of your religion’s holy texts and how they apply to
a dilemma.
• Cooperate with your allies, provided they don’t ask you to go against
divine will.
Others probably...
• Find your devotion impressive, even if they don’t share your faith or
understand it.
• Expect you to heal their wounds, along with more complex afflictions
like diseases and even curses.
• Rely on you to interact with other religious figures, including divine
servants like celestials and fiends.
CLERIC ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1 Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, deity, cleric spellcasting,
divine font, doctrine
2 Cleric feat, skill feat
3 2nd-rank spells, general feat, second doctrine,
skill increase
4 Cleric feat, skill feat
5 3rd-rank spells, attribute boosts, ancestry feat,
perception expertise, skill increase
6 Cleric feat, skill feat
7 4th-rank spells, general feat, skill increase,
third doctrine
8 Cleric feat, skill feat
9 5th-rank spells, ancestry feat, resolute faith,
skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, cleric feat, skill feat
11 6th-rank spells, fourth doctrine, general feat,
lightning reflexes, skill increase
12 Cleric feat, skill feat
13 7th-rank spells, ancestry feat, divine defense,
skill increase, weapon specialization
14 Cleric feat, skill feat
15 8th-rank spells, attribute boosts, fifth doctrine,
general feat, skill increase
16 Cleric feat, skill feat
17 9th-rank spells, ancestry feat, skill increase
18 Cleric feat, skill feat
19 Final doctrine, general feat, miraculous spell,
skill increase
20 Attribute boosts, cleric feat, skill feat
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a cleric. Abilities gained at higher
levels list requisite levels next to their names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you
have the benefits of your selected ancestry and background.
These are described in Chapter 2.
Attribute Boosts
In addition to the boost to Wisdom you get from your
class at 1st level, you have four free boosts to different
attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four
free boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute
modifier is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to
increase it; you get a partial boost, and must boost that
attribute again at a later level to increase it by 1.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These are noted at the start
of this class.

Deity
As a cleric, you are a mortal servitor of a deity you revere
above all others. The most common deities in Pathfinder
appear on pages 35–39, along with their edicts, areas of
concern, and the benefits you get for being a cleric of that
deity. Your deity grants you the trained proficiency rank in
one skill and with the deity’s favored weapon. If the favored
weapon is uncommon, you also get access to that weapon.
Your deity also adds spells to your spell list. You can
prepare these just like you can any spell on the divine spell
list once you can prepare spells of their rank as a cleric.
Any of these spells that aren’t normally on the divine list
are still divine spells if you prepare them this way.
Sanctification
Depending on your deity, their sanctification can make
you holy or unholy. This gives you the holy or unholy
trait, which commits you to one side of a struggle over
the souls of the planes and may be referenced in other
abilities. If you “can be” holy or unholy according to your
deity, you make that choice, and if you “must be” holy or
unholy you gain the trait automatically. If you gain the
opposing trait in some way, you lose the previous trait
until you complete an atone ritual (page 390).
Anathema
Acts fundamentally opposed to your deity’s ideals
are anathema to your faith. Learning or casting spells,
committing acts, and using items that are anathema to
your deity remove you from your deity’s good graces.
Casting spells with the unholy trait is almost always
anathema to deities who don’t allow unholy sanctification,
and casting holy spells is likewise anathema to those who
don’t allow holy sanctification. Similarly, casting spells
that are anathema to the tenets or goals of your faith could
interfere with your connection to your deity. For example,
casting a spell to create undead would be anathema to
Pharasma, the goddess of death. Many actions that are
anathema don’t appear in any deity’s formal list. For
borderline cases, you and your GM determine which acts
are anathema.
If you perform enough acts that are anathema to your
deity, you lose the magical abilities that come from your
connection to your deity. The class features that you lose are
determined by the GM, but they likely include your divine
font and all cleric spellcasting. These abilities can be regained
only if you repent by conducting an atone ritual (page 390).
Cleric Spellcasting
Your deity bestows on you the power to cast divine spells.
You are a spellcaster, and you can cast spells of the divine
tradition using the Cast a Spell activity (page 299). As a
cleric, your chants generally invoke your deity and their
powerful servants by name or title, while your gestures
are followed by sacred symbols or other representations
of your deity.
CLERIC SPELLS PER DAY
Your Spell Rank
Level Cantrips 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 10th
1 5 2* — — — — — — — — —
2 5 3* — — — — — — — — —
3 5 3 2* — — — — — — — —
4 5 3 3* — — — — — — — —
5 5 3 3 2* — — — — — — —
6 5 3 3 3* — — — — — — —
7 5 3 3 3 2* — — — — — —
8 5 3 3 3 3* — — — — — —
9 5 3 3 3 3 2* — — — — —
10 5 3 3 3 3 3* — — — — —
11 5 3 3 3 3 3 2* — — — —
12 5 3 3 3 3 3 3* — — — —
13 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 2* — — —
14 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3* — — —
15 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2* — —
16 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3* — —
17 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2* —
18 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3* —
19 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 1*†
20 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 1*†
* Your divine font gives you additional heal or harm spells of this rank. The number is 4 at 1st level, 5 at 5th level, and 6 at
15th level.
† The miraculous spell class feature gives you a 10th-rank spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots.
At 1st level, you can prepare two 1st-rank spells and
five cantrips each morning from the common spells on
the divine spell list (page 307) or from other divine
spells to which you gain access and learn via Learn a
Spell. Prepared spells remain available to you until you
cast them or until you prepare your spells again. The
number of spells you can prepare each day is called your
spell slots.
As you increase in level as a cleric, the number of spells
you can prepare each day increases, as does the highest
rank of spell you can cast, as shown in Cleric Spells per
Day table above.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack
to see how effective they are or for your enemies to roll
against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving
throw). Since your key attribute is Wisdom, your spell
attack modifier and spell DC use your Wisdom modifier.
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 403.
Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd rank and higher, you can
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-rank spells.
This increases the spell’s rank, heightening it to match the
spell slot. Many spells have specific improvements when
they are heightened to certain ranks.
Cantrips
Some of your spells are cantrips. A cantrip is a special
type of spell that doesn’t use spell slots. You can cast a

cantrip at will, any number of times per day. A cantrip
is always automatically heightened to half your level
rounded up—this is usually equal to the highest rank

of cleric spell slot you have. For example, as a 1st-
level cleric, your cantrips are 1st-rank spells, and as a

5th-level cleric, your cantrips are 3rd-rank spells.
Divine Font
Through your deity’s blessing, you gain additional spells
that channel either the life force called vitality or its
counterforce, the void. When you prepare your spells
each day, you can prepare additional heal or harm spells,
depending on your deity. The divine font spell your
deity provides is listed in the Divine Font entry for your
deity on pages 35–39; if both are listed, you can choose
between heal or harm. Once you choose, you can’t change
your choice short of divine intervention.
Healing Font: You gain 4 additional spell slots each
day at your highest rank of cleric spell slots. You can
prepare only heal spells (page 335) in these slots. At
5th level, the number of additional slots increases to 5,
and at 15th level, the total number of additional slots
increases to 6.
Harmful Font: You gain 4 additional spell slots each
day at your highest rank of cleric spell slots. You can
prepare only harm spells (page 334) in these slots. At
5th level, the number of additional slots increases to 5,
and at 15th level, the total number of additional slots
increases to 6.
Doctrine
Even among followers of the same deity, approaches
vary. At 1st level, you select cloistered cleric or warpriest
and gain the benefits of its first doctrine. At 3rd level
and every four levels thereafter, you gain another benefit
from your doctrine.
Cloistered Cleric
You are a cleric of the cloth, focusing on divine magic and
your connection to your deity’s domains.
First Doctrine (1st): You gain the Domain Initiate cleric
feat (page 113).
Second Doctrine (3rd): Your proficiency rank for
Fortitude saves increases to expert.
Third Doctrine (7th): Your proficiency ranks for the spell

attack modifier and spell DC statistics increase to expert.
Fourth Doctrine (11th): You gain expert proficiency
with your deity’s favored weapon, simple weapons, and
unarmed attacks. When you critically succeed at an attack
roll using your deity’s favored weapon, you apply the
weapon’s critical specialization effect; you can use your
spell DC in place of your class DC.
Fifth Doctrine (15th): Your proficiency ranks for the spell
attack modifier and spell DC statistics increase to master.
Final Doctrine (19th): Your proficiency ranks for the
spell attack modifier and spell DC statistics increase
to legendary.
Warpriest
You have trained in the more militant doctrine of your
church, focusing on both spells and battle.
First Doctrine (1st): You’re trained in light and medium
armor, and you have expert proficiency in Fortitude
saves. You gain the Shield Block general feat (page 262),
a reaction to reduce damage with a shield. If your deity’s
favored weapon is a simple weapon or an unarmed attack,
you gain the Deadly Simplicity cleric feat (page 113). At
13th level, if you gain the divine defense class feature, you
also gain expert proficiency in light and medium armor.
Second Doctrine (3rd): You’re trained in martial weapons.
Third Doctrine (7th): You gain expert proficiency with
your deity’s favored weapon, martial weapons, simple
weapons, and unarmed attacks. When you critically
succeed at an attack roll using your deity’s favored weapon,
you apply the weapon’s critical specialization effect; you
can use your spell DC in place of your class DC.
Fourth Doctrine (11th): Your proficiency ranks for the
spell attack modifier and spell DC statistics increase
to expert.
Fifth Doctrine (15th): Your proficiency rank for
Fortitude saves increases to master. When you roll a
success at a Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead.
Final Doctrine (19th): You gain master proficiency with
your deity’s favored weapon, spell attack modifier,
and spell DC.
Cleric Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels
thereafter, you gain a cleric class feat.
These begin on page 113.
Skill Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you
gain a skill feat. Skill feats can be found in
Chapter 4 and have the skill trait. You must
be trained or better in the corresponding
skill to select a skill feat.
General Feats 3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
Skill Increases 3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase to either become trained
in one skill you’re untrained in, or become an expert in one
skill in which you’re already trained.
You can use any of these skill increases you gain at 7th
level or higher to become a master in a skill in which you’re
already an expert, and any of these skill increases you gain
at 15th level or higher to become legendary in a skill in
which you’re already a master.
Ancestry Feats 5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Perception Expertise 5th
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
Resolute Faith 9th
Belief provides a bulwark against insidious thoughts.
Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases to master.
When you roll a success at a Will save, you get a critical
success instead.
Reflex Expertise 11th
You’ve developed a knack for dodging danger. Your
proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to expert.
Divine Defense 13th
Your training and your deity protect you from harm. Your
proficiency rank in unarmored defense increases to expert.
Weapon Specialization 13th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with your
weapons. You deal 2 additional damage with weapons
and unarmed attacks in which you are an expert. This
damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and to 4 if
you’re legendary.
Miraculous Spell 19th
You’re exalted by your deity and gain truly incredible
spells. You gain a single 10th-rank spell slot and can
prepare a spell in that slot using cleric spellcasting. Unlike
with other spell slots, you can’t use 10-rank slots with
abilities that give you more spell slots or that let you cast
spells without expending spell slots. You don’t gain more
10th-rank spells as you level up, but you can take the
Maker of Miracles feat (page 121) to gain a second slot.
KEY TERMS

You’ll see the following term in many cleric class features.
Holy and Unholy: These traits mark something, like
your character or a spell, that belongs to one side of the
battle between celestials and fiends. Generally, fiends
and undead are susceptible to holy abilities and celestials
to unholy ones.
Sanctified: If you are holy or unholy, your sanctified
actions and spells gain the same trait.
Spellshape: These actions tweak your spells. You must
use a spellshape action directly before Casting the Spell
you want to alter. If you use any action (including free
actions and reactions) other than Cast a Spell directly
after, you waste the benefits of the spellshape action.
Effects added by a spellshape action are part of the spell’s
effect, not of the spellshape action.
Cleric Feats
At each level that you gain a cleric feat, you can select one
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites
before selecting the feat.1ST LEVEL
DEADLY SIMPLICITY FEAT 1
CLERIC
Prerequisites deity with a simple or unarmed attack favored
weapon, trained with your deity’s favored weapon
When you are wielding your deity’s favored weapon, increase
the damage die size of that weapon by one step.
If your deity’s favored weapon is an unarmed attack (such as
a fist, if you worship Irori) and its damage die is smaller than d6,
instead increase its damage die size to d6.
DIVINE CASTIGATION FEAT 1
CLERIC
Prerequisites holy or unholy trait
Your deity’s grace doesn’t extend to your sworn enemies. When
you cast a harm or heal spell, you can add your holy or unholy
trait to it. If you do, the spell deals damage to creatures with the
opposing trait, even if it wouldn’t normally damage them. The
spell deals spirit damage when used this way. For example, if
you are holy, you could add the holy trait to a heal spell and deal
spirit damage to a fiend that has the unholy trait.
DOMAIN INITIATE FEAT 1
CLERIC
Your deity bestows a special spell related to their powers. Select
one domain—a subject of particular interest to you within your
religion—from your deity’s list. You gain an initial domain spell
for that domain, a spell unique to the domain and not available
to other clerics. Each domain’s theme appears on page 39 and
domain spells appear on pages 372–381.
Domain spells are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus Point
to cast a focus spell, and you start with a focus pool of 1 Focus
Point. You refill your focus pool during your daily preparations,
and you can regain 1 Focus Point by spending 10 minutes using
the Refocus activity to pray to your deity or do service toward
their causes.
CLERIC FEATS BY NAME
Feat Level
Advanced Domain 8
Avatar’s Audience 20
Avatar’s Protection 20
Cantrip Expansion 2
Castigating Weapon 10
Cast Down 6
Channel Smite 4
Channeling Block 14
Communal Healing 2
Cremate Undead 8
Deadly Simplicity 1
Defensive Recovery 12
Deity’s Protection 14
Directed Channel 4
Divine Apex 18
Divine Castigation 1
Divine Infusion 4
Divine Rebuttal 6
Divine Weapon 6
Domain Focus 12
Domain Initiate 1
Ebb and Flow 14
Echoing Channel 18
Emblazon Antimagic 12
Emblazon Armament 2
Emblazon Energy 8
Eternal Bane 16
Eternal Blessing 16
Fast Channel 14
Fortunate Relief 12
Harming Hands 1
Healing Hands 1
Heroic Recovery 10
Improved Swift Banishment 18

Inviolable 18
Lasting Armament 14
Magic Hands 6
Maker of Miracles 20
Martyr 8
Miraculous Possibility 18
Panic the Dead 2
Premonition of Avoidance 1
Premonition of Clarity 14
Raise Symbol 4
Rapid Response 2
Reach Spell 1
Rebounding Smite 16
Remediate 16
Replenishment of War 10
Restorative Channel 8
Restorative Strike 4
Resurrectionist 16
Sacred Ground 4
Sanctify Armament 8
Sap Life 2
Sapping Symbol 12
Selective Energy 6
Shared Avoidance 10
Shared Clarity 18
Shared Replenishment 12
Shield of Faith 10
Spellshape Channel 20
Steady Spellcasting 6
Surging Focus 8
Swift Banishment 14
Versatile Font 2
Void Siphon 8
Warpriest’s Armor 2
Zealous Rush 8
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your level
rounded up, much like cantrips. Focus spells don’t require spell
slots, and can’t be cast using spell slots. Your focus pool can hold
one Focus Point for each focus spell you have, up to 3 points.
The full rules for focus spells appear on page 298.
Special You can select this feat multiple times, selecting a
different domain each time and gaining its domain spell.
HARMING HANDS FEAT 1
CLERIC
Prerequisites harmful font
The mordant power of your void energy grows. When you cast
harm, you roll d10s instead of d8s.
HEALING HANDS FEAT 1
CLERIC
Prerequisites healing font
Your vitality is even more vibrant and restorative. When you
cast heal, you roll d10s instead of d8s.

PREMONITION OF AVOIDANCE [reaction] FEAT 1
CLERIC DIVINE PREDICTION
Trigger You are about to roll a saving throw against a hazard.
Your deity grants you a moment’s foresight. You gain a +2
circumstance bonus to the triggering saving throw.
REACH SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
CLERIC CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s range
by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if the spell
normally has a range of touch, you extend its range to 30 feet.
2ND LEVEL
CANTRIP EXPANSION FEAT 2
CLERIC
You study a wider range of simple spells. You can prepare two
additional cantrips each day.
COMMUNAL HEALING FEAT 2
CLERIC HEALING VITALITY
You’re an exceptional conduit for vitality and, as you channel it
through you, you can divert some to heal yourself or another
creature. When you cast the heal spell to heal a single creature,
choose another willing living creature within range of your heal
to regain Hit Points equal to the heal spell’s rank.
EMBLAZON ARMAMENT FEAT 2
CLERIC EXPLORATION
Carefully etching a sacred image into a physical object, you
steel yourself for battle. You can spend 10 minutes emblazoning
a symbol of your deity upon a weapon or shield. The symbol
doesn’t fade until 1 year has passed, but if you Emblazon an
Armament, any symbol you previously emblazoned, and any
symbol already emblazoned on that item instantly disappears.
The emblazoned item is a religious symbol of your
deity in addition to its normal purpose, and it gains
another benefit determined by the type of item. The
benefit applies only to followers of the deity the
symbol represents, but others can use the item normally
• Shield The shield gains a +1 status bonus to its Hardness.
(This causes it to reduce more damage with the Shield
Block reaction.)
• Weapon The wielder gains a +1 status bonus to damage
rolls with the weapon.

PANIC THE DEAD FEAT 2
CLERIC EMOTION FEAR MENTAL
Vitality strikes terror in the undead. When you use a heal spell
to damage undead, any undead that fails its saving throw is
also frightened 1. If it critically failed, the creature also gains
the fleeing condition until the start of your next turn. Mindless
undead are not immune to this effect due to being mindless.
RAPID RESPONSE [reaction] FEAT 2
CLERIC
Trigger An ally is reduced to 0 Hit Points.
You work quickly in emergencies. You Stride towards the
triggering ally. You gain a +10-foot circumstance bonus to your
Speed during this movement.
SAP LIFE FEAT 2
CLERIC HEALING
You draw the life force out of your enemies. When you cast a
harm spell and damage at least one living creature, you regain
Hit Points equal to the spell rank of your harm spell. If you aren’t
a living creature, you gain no benefit from this feat.
VERSATILE FONT FEAT 2
CLERIC
Prerequisites harmful font or healing font, deity that allows
clerics to have both fonts
As you explore your deity’s aspects, you move beyond
restrictions on healing or harming. You can prepare either
harm or heal in the spell slots gained from the harmful font or
healing font.
WARPRIEST’S ARMOR FEAT 2
CLERIC
Prerequisites warpriest doctrine
Your training has helped you adapt to ever-heavier armor. You
are trained in heavy armor. Whenever you gain a class feature
that grants you expert or greater proficiency in medium armor,
you also gain that proficiency in heavy armor. You treat armor
you wear of 2 Bulk or higher as though it were 1 Bulk lighter (to
a minimum of 1 Bulk).
4TH LEVEL
CHANNEL SMITE [two-actions] FEAT 4
CLERIC DIVINE
Cost Expend a harm or heal spell.
You siphon the energies of life and death through a melee attack
and into your foe. Make a melee Strike. On a hit, you cast the
1-action version of the expended spell to damage the target,
in addition to the normal damage from your Strike. The target
automatically gets a failure on its save (or a critical failure if your
Strike was a critical hit). The spell doesn’t have the manipulate
trait when cast this way.
The spell is expended with no effect if your Strike fails or hits
a creature that isn’t damaged by that energy type (such as if you
hit a non-undead creature with a heal spell).
DIRECTED CHANNEL FEAT 4
CLERIC
You can shape the energy you channel in a single direction.
When you cast a version of harm or heal that has an area, you
can make its area a 60-foot cone instead of a 30-foot emanation.
DIVINE INFUSION [one-action] FEAT 4
CLERIC CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
You pour energy into the subject of your healing to empower
its attacks. If the next action you use is to cast harm or heal
to restore Hit Points to a single creature, the target then deals
an additional 1d6 damage with its melee weapons and unarmed
attacks until the end of its next turn. The damage type is void if
you cast harm and vitality if you cast heal.
If the spell cast is at least 5th rank, this damage increases to
2d6, and if the spell is at least 8th rank, the damage increases
to 3d6.
RAISE SYMBOL [one-action] FEAT 4
CLERIC
Requirements You are wielding a religious symbol.
You present your religious symbol emphatically. You gain a +2
circumstance bonus to saving throws until the start of your next
turn. While it’s raised, if you roll a success at a saving throw
against a vitality or void effect, you get a critical success instead.

If the religious symbol you’re raising is a shield, such as
with Emblazon Armaments, you gain the effects of Raise a
Shield when you use this action and the effects of this action
when you Raise a Shield.
RESTORATIVE STRIKE [two-actions] FEAT 4
CLERIC
Requirements You have a harm or heal spell you can cast.
You balance both sides of the scales, restoring yourself
while striking a foe. Cast a 1-action harm or heal spell to heal
yourself, expending the spell normally. It loses the manipulate
trait when cast this way. Then make a melee Strike. If you
make this Strike with your deity’s favored weapon, you gain a
+1 status bonus to the attack roll.
If the Strike hits, you can target a second willing creature
to heal the same amount from the spell. This creature can be
outside of the spell’s range, provided it’s adjacent to the enemy
you hit.
SACRED GROUND FEAT 4
CLERIC CONSECRATION DIVINE EXPLORATION
Prerequisites harmful font or healing font
Frequency once per 10 minutes
You pray continuously for 1 minute to call a subtle shadow
of your deity’s realm over a 30-foot burst centered on you. It
lasts for 10 minutes, and a creature that remains in the area
for the entire 10 minutes regains Hit Points equal to your level.
If you have a healing font, this activity has the healing
and vitality traits and heals living creatures. If you have a
harmful font, this activity has the healing and void traits and
heals undead creatures (or other creatures with void healing).
Clerics with Versatile Font can choose either or both. It can’t
damage creatures in any case.
6TH LEVEL
CAST DOWN [one-action] FEAT 6
CLERIC CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
The sheer force of your faith can bring a foe crashing down. If
the next action you use is to cast harm or heal to damage one
creature, the target is knocked prone if it takes any damage
from the spell. If the target critically fails its save against the
spell, it also takes a –10-foot status penalty to its Speed for
1 minute.
DIVINE REBUTTAL [reaction] FEAT 6
CLERIC DIVINE
Trigger Your ally is about to roll a saving throw against a
magical ability of a creature you’re adjacent to.
Requirements You are wielding your deity’s favored weapon.
You strive against magical threats physically and spiritually.
You can Strike the adjacent creature with your deity’s favored
weapon. If you are holy or unholy, the Strike gains that trait.
If your Strike hits, all your allies gain a +2 circumstance bonus
to the triggering saving throw (or a +3 circumstance bonus on
a critical hit).
DIVINE WEAPON [free-action] FEAT 6
CLERIC
Frequency once per turn
Trigger You finish Casting a Spell using one of your divine spell
slots on your turn.
You siphon residual spell energy into a weapon you’re wielding.
Until the end of your turn, the weapon deals an additional 1d4
spirit damage. If you are holy or unholy, Strikes with the weapon
also gain that trait, and the additional damage increases to 2d4
against creatures of the opposing trait.
MAGIC HANDS FEAT 6
CLERIC
Prerequisites Healing Hands
The blessing of your deity heightens your healing ability,
integrating magical healing with the mundane. When you
succeed at a Medicine check to Treat Wounds, you can roll d10s
instead of d8s for the healing and add a status bonus to the
healing equal to your level.
SELECTIVE ENERGY FEAT 6
CLERIC
As you call down divine power, you can prevent some enemies
from benefiting or some allies from being hurt. When you cast
a version of harm or heal that has an area, you can designate
up to 5 creatures in the area. They are not targeted by the spell.
STEADY SPELLCASTING FEAT 6
CLERIC
Confident in your technique, you don’t lose spells easily. If a
reaction would disrupt your spellcasting action, attempt a DC 15
flat check. If you succeed, your action isn’t disrupted.
8TH LEVEL
ADVANCED DOMAIN FEAT 8
CLERIC
Prerequisites Domain Initiate
Your prayers have unlocked deeper secrets of your deity’s domain.
You gain an advanced domain spell from one of your domains for
which you have an initial domain spell (see pages 372–381).
Special You can select this feat multiple times. Each time, you
must select a different advanced domain spell..
CREMATE UNDEAD FEAT 8
CLERIC
Your overwhelming vitality sets undead alight. When you use
a heal spell to damage undead, each undead that takes damage
also takes persistent fire damage equal to the spell’s rank.
EMBLAZON ENERGY FEAT 8
CLERIC
Prerequisites Emblazon Armament
With elemental forces, you make your emblazoned symbols
more potent. When you Emblazon an Armament, you can
choose from the following effects instead of the effects listed

in that feat. These effects have the same restrictions as the
base options.
• Shield Choose acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic. The
wielder gains the shield’s circumstance bonus to saving
throws against that damage type and can use Shield
Block against damage of that type. The shield also gains
resistance to that damage type equal to half your level if
you have a domain spell with a trait matching that type
(such as fire ray).
• Weapon Choose acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic. The
weapon deals an extra 1d4 damage of that type. Increase
this extra damage to 1d6 if you have a domain spell with a
trait matching that type (such as fire ray).
MARTYR [one-action] FEAT 8
CLERIC SPELLSHAPE
You go to extreme lengths to support your allies, even when
it means bringing harm to yourself. If your next action is to
cast harm or heal to restore Hit Points to a single ally, you can
channel your own vitality along with the spell. You lose 1d8 Hit
Points per rank of the spell, which can’t be reduced or mitigated
in any way, and your ally regains an equal number of Hit Points.
RESTORATIVE CHANNEL FEAT 8
CLERIC
Prerequisites healing font
You can remove conditions with divine grace. You can sacrifice
one heal spell you’ve prepared in your extra slots from your
healing font to cast one of the following spells instead: cleanse
affliction, clear mind, sound body, or sure footing. The spell is
heightened to the same rank as the spell you sacrificed.
SANCTIFY ARMAMENT [one-action] FEAT 8
CLERIC DIVINE
Prerequisites holy or unholy trait
You touch a weapon and bring it into concordance with your
deity. For 1 round, that weapon gains your holy or unholy trait.
It also deals an additional 2d6 spirit damage to creatures of the
opposed trait. For example, if you are holy, the weapon would
deal an extra 2d6 spirit damage to unholy creatures.
If you use Sanctify Armament again, any previous use of
it expires.
SURGING FOCUS [free-action] FEAT 8
CLERIC
Frequency once per day
Trigger An ally you can see falls to 0 Hit Points.
When an ally you can see falls in battle, your surge of righteous
indignation allows you to draw upon untapped reserves of
divine power. You instantly regain 1 Focus Point.
VOID SIPHON FEAT 8
CLERIC
The raw energy of the Void saps the essence of the living. Any
living creature that critically fails its save against a harm spell
you cast is drained 1.
Sample Cleric
GOZREN

Following the Wind and the Waves, you protect the
beauty of nature in all its forms.
Attributes

Take Wisdom for your spellcasting and Strength for
attacks.

Skills
Athletics, Nature, Religion, Survival
Deity
Gozreh (divine font: heal)
Doctrine

Warpriest

Higher-Level Feats
Emblazon Armament (2nd), Divine Weapon (6th)
Prepared Spells

1st gust of wind, runic weapon, heal spells from divine
font; Cantrips detect magic, know the way, light, message,
shield
ZEALOUS RUSH [reaction] FEAT 8
CLERIC
Trigger You cast a divine spell that takes 1 action or more to cast
and that affects only you or your equipment.
You bless yourself on the move. Stride up to 10 feet. If the
spell took 2 or more actions, you can Stride up to your full
Speed instead.
10TH LEVEL
CASTIGATING WEAPON FEAT 10
CLERIC
Prerequisites Divine Castigation
The force of your deity’s castigation strengthens your body so
you can strike down the enemy and its allies. After you deal spirit
damage due to Divine Castigation, your weapon or unarmed
Strikes gain your holy or unholy trait and deal additional spirit
damage until the end of your turn. The spirit damage is equal to
the rank of harm or heal you dealt spirit damage with, and is in
addition to any spirit damage the weapon already deals (such
as from a holy rune).
HEROIC RECOVERY [one-action] FEAT 10
CLERIC CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites healing font
The restorative power of your healing invigorates the recipient.
If the next action you use is to cast heal targeting a single living
creature and the target regains Hit Points from the spell, the
target also gains three bonuses until the end of its next turn:
a +5-foot status bonus to its Speed, a +1 status bonus to attack
rolls, and a +1 status bonus to damage rolls. In addition, if the
target is prone, it can immediately Stand as a free action that
doesn’t trigger reactions.
REPLENISHMENT OF WAR FEAT 10
CLERIC
Prerequisites expert in your deity’s favored weapon
Striking out against your enemies draws praise and protection
from your deity. When you damage a creature with a Strike
using your deity’s favored weapon, you gain a number of
temporary Hit Points equal to half your level, or equal to your
level if the Strike was a critical hit. These temporary Hit Points
last until the start of your next turn.
SHARED AVOIDANCE FEAT 10
CLERIC
Prerequisites Premonition of Avoidance
You can project your premonitions of danger to your
allies. When you use Premonition of Avoidance,
allies within 20 feet of you who are rolling the same
saving throw against the same hazard also gain a
+2 circumstance bonus to their saving throws.
SHIELD OF FAITH FEAT 10
CLERIC
Prerequisites Domain Initiate
Residual energy from your domain spells bolsters your
defenses. When you spend a Focus Point to cast a domain
spell, you gain a +1 status bonus to your AC until the start of
your next turn.
12TH LEVEL
DEFENSIVE RECOVERY [one-action] FEAT 12
CLERIC CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
Your faith provides temporary protection in addition to healing.
If the next action you use is to cast harm or heal on a single
target and the target regains Hit Points from the spell, it also
gains a +2 status bonus to AC and saving throws for 1 round.
DOMAIN FOCUS FEAT 12
CLERIC
Your devotion to your deity’s domains grows greater, and
so does the power granted to you. Whenever you Refocus,
completely refill your focus pool.
EMBLAZON ANTIMAGIC FEAT 12
CLERIC
Prerequisites Emblazon Armament
Your deity’s symbol protects against offensive magic. When
you Emblazon an Armament, you can choose from the
following effects instead of the effects listed in that feat. These
effects have the same restrictions as the base options.
• Shield When the wielder has the shield raised, they gain
the shield’s circumstance bonus to saving throws against
magic, and they can use Shield Block against damage
from their enemies’ spells.
• Weapon When the weapon’s wielder critically hits with
the weapon, they can attempt to counteract a spell on
their target, using half their level, rounded up, as the
counteract rank. After the attempt, the emblazoned
symbol immediately disappears.
FORTUNATE RELIEF FEAT 12
CLERIC FORTUNE
Your god favors your attempts to remove afflictions and
conditions. When you cast a healing spell that attempts to
counteract (page 431) an effect, you can roll the counteract
check twice and take the higher value.
SAPPING SYMBOL [reaction] FEAT 12
CLERIC DIVINE
Prerequisites Raise Symbol
Trigger While you have your symbol raised, you are about to
take damage from a melee attack.
Your religious symbol glows with sacred energy, turning the
attacker’s strength to weakness. Attempt a Religion check
against the triggering creature’s Will DC. Regardless of the
result, the creature is temporarily immune for 1 minute.
Critical Success The creature is enfeebled 2 until it spends at
least 1 action moving away from you.
Success As critical success, but enfeebled 1.

SHARED REPLENISHMENT FEAT 12
CLERIC
Prerequisites Replenishment of War
When your deity blesses your warlike acts, you can extend
that favor to your allies. You can grant the temporary Hit Points
from Replenishment of War to an ally within 10 feet instead
of gaining them yourself. You can grant these temporary Hit
Points to a different ally each time, meaning you might be able
to grant them to multiple creatures in a single turn.
14TH LEVEL
CHANNELING BLOCK FEAT 14
CLERIC
Prerequisites Shield Block
You pour divine energy into a desperate block. When you
Shield Block, you can expend a harm or heal spell. Roll 1d8 for
each rank of the spell, and increase the shield’s Hardness by
the total for this block.
DEITY’S PROTECTION FEAT 14
CLERIC
Prerequisites Advanced Domain
When you call upon your deity’s power to fulfill the promise
of their domain, you gain divine protection. After you cast a
domain spell, you gain resistance to all damage until the start
of your next turn. The amount of resistance is equal to the
rank of the domain spell you cast.
EBB AND FLOW [one-action] FEAT 14
CLERIC CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites Versatile Font
You can pull forth both vitality and the void simultaneously
to harm your enemies and heal your allies. If your next action
is to cast a 1-action or 2-action heal or harm spell, choose
one creature in range that would be harmed by the spell, and
choose another creature within range that would be healed by
the spell. Your heal or harm targets both creatures.
FAST CHANNEL FEAT 14
CLERIC
Prerequisites harmful font or healing font
Divine power is always at your fingertips, swiftly responding
to your call. When you cast harm or heal by spending 2
actions, you can get the effects of the 3-action version instead
of the 2-action version.
You can do this with harm if you have harmful font or heal
if you have healing font (or both if you have Versatile Font).
LASTING ARMAMENT FEAT 14
CLERIC
Prerequisites Sanctify Armament
When you sanctify a weapon, it remains sanctified for
an extended period. The duration of Sanctify Armament
is increased to 1 hour, but it still ends if you use Sanctify
Armament on another weapon.
Sample Cleric
PHARASMIN

A follower of the Lady of Graves, you respect the sanctity
of both life and death.
Attributes

Prioritize Wisdom. Charisma helps you spread the word
of your faith.

Skills
Diplomacy, Medicine, Occultism, Religion
Deity
Pharasma (divine font: heal)
Doctrine
Cloistered cleric (death domain)
Higher-Level Feats
Panic the Dead (2nd), Selective Energy (6th)
Prepared Spells

1st fear, mindlink, heal spells from divine font; Cantrips
daze, detect magic, light, stabilize, vitality lance
PREMONITION OF CLARITY [reaction] FEAT 14
CLERIC FORTUNE
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You fail a saving throw against a mental effect.
Your deity sends you a vision of faith to steel you against
mental attacks. Reroll the triggering saving throw with a +2
circumstance bonus. You must use the second result, even if
it’s worse.
SWIFT BANISHMENT [reaction] FEAT 14
CLERIC
Trigger You critically hit a creature that is not on its home plane.
Requirements You have a banishment spell prepared.
The force of your blow sends your victim back to its home
plane. You expend a banishment spell you have prepared,
affecting the creature you critically hit without needing to
cast the spell. The creature can attempt to resist the spell
as normal.
16TH LEVEL
ETERNAL BANE FEAT 16
CLERIC
Prerequisites unholy
Your life has made you a nexus for your deity’s vile power.
You’re continuously surrounded by a bane spell, with a spell
rank equal to half your level (rounded up). The radius is 15 feet,
and you can’t increase it. You can Dismiss the spell; if you do, it
returns automatically after 1 minute.
ETERNAL BLESSING FEAT 16
CLERIC
Prerequisites holy
Your deeds have brought your deity’s grace to you for all of
eternity. You’re continuously surrounded by a bless spell, with
a spell rank equal to half your level (rounded up). The radius is
15 feet, and you can’t increase it. You can Dismiss the spell; if
you do, it returns automatically after 1 minute.
REBOUNDING SMITE [reaction] FEAT 16
CLERIC
Prerequisites Channel Smite
Trigger You miss with your Strike during Channel Smite.
The energy from your smite persists for a moment, allowing
you to pass it to a new target. Cast the 1-action version of the
harm or heal spell you expended, targeting a creature other
than the target of your Strike.
REMEDIATE [free-action] FEAT 16
CLERIC CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
Frequency once per hour
If your next action is to use your divine font to cast a
3-action heal or harm spell, you can harness the residual
energy to counterbalance opposing forces. In addition to its
normal effects, you use your heal or harm spell to attempt to
counteract one divine effect in the spell’s area.
RESURRECTIONIST FEAT 16
CLERIC
You can cause a creature you bring back from the brink of
death to thrive and continue healing. When you restore Hit
Points to a dying creature or bring a dead creature back to
life and restore Hit Points to it, you grant that creature fast
healing 5 for 1 minute. This fast healing ends if the creature is
knocked unconscious.
18TH LEVEL
DIVINE APEX FEAT 18
CLERIC
You can pour divine power into an item, letting the wearer
exceed their limits. When you complete your daily preparations,
you can touch one worn magical item that doesn’t have the
apex trait. It gains the apex trait until your next preparations
(GM Core 270), and you choose one of your deity’s divine
attributes (page 35). The item increases that attribute modifier
by 1 or to +4, whichever is higher. A character can benefit from
only one apex item at a time, as normal.
ECHOING CHANNEL [one-action] FEAT 18
CLERIC CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE
When you pull forth vitality or void energy, you also create
a smaller pocket of that energy. If the next action you use
is to cast a 2-action harm or heal to heal or damage a single
creature, choose one additional creature in range. Target that
creature with a 1-action version of the same spell. This spell
is the same rank as the 2-action harm or heal you cast and
doesn’t cost another spell slot.
IMPROVED SWIFT BANISHMENT FEAT 18
CLERIC
Prerequisites Swift Banishment
You easily banish creatures with your weapon. You can use
Swift Banishment as long as you have a spell slot of 5th rank or
higher remaining, even if you don’t have banishment prepared.
You must sacrifice a prepared spell of 5th rank or higher, and
the banishment effect you create is heightened to the rank of
that spell. The target takes a –2 circumstance penalty to its
save as though you’d paid the extra cost for banishment.
INVIOLABLE FEAT 18
CLERIC
Your deity punishes creatures that harm you. Creatures that
hit you with an attack take 3d6 spirit damage every time they
do. If you have the holy or unholy trait, you can apply it to
this damage.
MIRACULOUS POSSIBILITY FEAT 18
CLERIC
Your deity empowers you to perform minor miracles, allowing
you to readily adapt to the fluctuating needs of your duties.
Once during your daily preparations, you can use a spell slot
to hold sheer divine potential, rather than using it to prepare

a spell. You can use this spell slot to cast any spell you know
from the divine spell list that’s at least 2 ranks lower than the
slot you designate. The spell acts in all ways as a spell of 2
ranks lower. You don’t have any particular spell prepared in
that slot until you cast it.
SHARED CLARITY FEAT 18
CLERIC
Prerequisites Premonition of Clarity
You can project your premonitions of clarity to your allies.
When you use Premonition of Clarity, allies within 15 feet
of you who failed the same saving throw against the same
mental effect can also spend their reactions to reroll the failed
saving throw with a +2 circumstance bonus.
20TH LEVEL
AVATAR’S AUDIENCE FEAT 20
CLERIC
Your extensive service affords you certain divine privileges.
First, any creature you encounter knows instinctively that
you speak for your deity. Second, if you conduct the commune
ritual to contact your deity, you don’t have to pay any cost,
and you automatically get a critical success. Third, once per
day, you can cast interplanar teleport as a divine innate spell,
but only to travel to the realm of your deity. When you cast
it this way, its casting time is 1 minute, your religious symbol
is a sufficient planar key for this spell, and you appear exactly
where you want to be. If you’re in your deity’s realm due to
this spell, you can return to the point you left when you cast
it by spending a single action, which has the concentrate and
divine traits.
AVATAR’S PROTECTION [reaction] FEAT 20
CLERIC
Trigger You are critically hit by an enemy.
Requirements You have an avatar spell prepared.
In moments of danger, you can call upon your god’s form in an
instant. You cast avatar from your spell slots. The triggering
critical hit is reduced to a normal hit, and its damage is applied
after gaining the avatar spell’s temporary Hit Points.
MAKER OF MIRACLES FEAT 20
CLERIC
Prerequisites miraculous spell
You are a conduit for truly deific power. You gain an additional
10th-rank spell slot.
SPELLSHAPE CHANNEL [free-action] FEAT 20
CLERIC CONCENTRATE
Deep understanding of divine revelations into the nature of
vital essence allows you to freely manipulate the energy of
life and death. Use one spellshape action you can perform that
normally takes 1 action and can be applied to the harm or heal
spell. If you use it in this way, its effects apply only to a harm
or heal spell.
DRUID
The power of nature is impossible to resist. It can bring ruin to the stoutest fortress
in minutes, reducing even the mightiest works to rubble, burning them to ash,
burying them beneath an avalanche of snow, or drowning them beneath the waves.
It can provide endless bounty and breathtaking splendor to those who respect it—and
an agonizing death to those who take it too lightly. You are one of those who hear nature’s
call. You stand in awe of the majesty of its power and give yourself over to its service.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Wisdom
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to Wisdom.
HIT POINTS
8 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Nature
Trained in one skill determined by your
druidic order
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 2 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in medium armor
Trained in unarmored defense
SPELLS
Trained in spell attack modifier
Trained in spell DC
CLASS DC
Trained in druid class DC
During combat encounters...
You call upon the forces of nature to defeat your enemies and protect your
allies. You cast spells that draw upon primal magic to protect yourself and
your friends, heal their wounds, or summon deadly animals to fight at your
side. Depending on your bond to nature, you might call upon powerful
elemental magic or change shape into a terrifying beast.
During social encounters...
You represent balance and a reasoned approach to problems, looking
for solutions that not only are best for the natural world, but also allow
the creatures within it to live in harmony and peace. You often propose
compromises that allow both sides to gain what they truly need, even if they
can’t have all that they desire.
While exploring...
You track down enemies, navigate the wilderness, and use spells to detect
magical auras around you. You might even ask wild animals to lend their
extraordinary senses and scouting abilities to your group.
In downtime...
You might craft magic items or potions. Alternatively, your tie to nature
might lead you to tend a wilderness area, befriending beasts and healing the
wounds caused by civilization. You might even teach sustainable farming
and animal husbandry techniques that allow others to subsist off the land
without harming the natural balance.
You might...
• Have a deep and meaningful respect for the power of nature.
• Be in constant awe of the natural world, eager to share it with others
but wary of their influence upon it.
• Treat plants and animals as allies, working with them to reach your
goals.
Others probably...
• View you as a representative of nature, and are sure you can control it.
• Assume you’re a recluse who avoids society and cities.
• Consider you a mystic, similar to a priest, but answering only to the
forces of nature.
DRUID ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1 Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, druid spellcasting,
anathema, druidic order, Shield Block, voice of
nature, Wildsong
2 Druid feat, skill feat
3 2nd-rank spells, fortitude expertise, general
feat, perception expertise, skill increase
4 Druid feat, skill feat
5 3rd-rank spells, attribute boosts, ancestry feat,
reflex expertise, skill increase
6 Druid feat, skill feat
7 4th-rank spells, expert spellcaster, general feat,
skill increase
8 Druid feat, skill feat
9 5th-rank spells, ancestry feat, skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, druid feat, skill feat
11 6th-rank spells, general feat, skill increase,
weapon expertise, wild willpower
12 Druid feat, skill feat
13 7th-rank spells, ancestry feat, medium armor
expertise, skill increase, weapon specialization
14 Druid feat, skill feat
15 8th-rank spells, attribute boosts, general feat,
master spellcaster, skill increase
16 Druid feat, skill feat
17 9th-rank spells, ancestry feat, skill increase
18 Druid feat, skill feat
19 General feat, legendary spellcaster, primal
hierophant, skill increase
20 Attribute boosts, druid feat, skill feat
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a druid. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to
the features’ names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background. These are described in Chapter 2.
Attribute Boosts
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have four free boosts to different attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four
free boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute
modifier is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to
increase it; you get a partial boost, and must boost that
attribute again at a later level to increase it by 1.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These are noted at the start
of this class.

Druid Spellcasting
The power of the wild world flows through you. You are
a spellcaster and can cast spells of the primal tradition
using the Cast a Spell activity (see Casting Spells on page
299). As a druid, your spellcasting incantations might be
pleas to the environment around you or the invocation of
ancient vows; your hands might sway like willows or curl
into clawlike shapes as your gestures direct your magic.
At 1st level, you can prepare two 1st-rank spells and
five cantrips each morning from the common spells on
the primal spell list (page 311), or from other primal
spells to which you gain access and learn via Learn a
Spell. Prepared spells remain available to you until you
cast them or until you prepare your spells again. The
number of spells you can prepare each day is called your
spell slots.
As you increase in level as a druid, the number of spells
you can prepare each day increases, as does the highest
rank of spell you can cast, as shown in the Druid Spells
per Day table on page 125.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack
to see how effective they are, or have your enemies roll
against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving
throw). Since your key attribute is Wisdom, your spell
attack modifier and spell DC use your Wisdom modifier.
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 403.
Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd rank and higher, you can
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-rank spells.
This increases the spell’s rank, heightening it to match the
spell slot. Many spells have specific improvements when
they are heightened to certain ranks.
Cantrips
Some of your spells are cantrips. A cantrip is a special type
of spell that doesn’t use spell slots. You can cast a cantrip
at will, any number of times per day. A cantrip is always
automatically heightened to half your level rounded up—
this is usually equal to the highest rank of druid spell slot
you have. For example, as a 1st-level druid, your cantrips
are 1st-rank spells, and a 5th-level druid’s are 3rd rank.
Anathema
As stewards of the natural order, druids find affronts to
nature anathema. If you repeatedly perform these acts,
you lose your magical abilities from the druid class,
including your druid spellcasting and the benefits of
your order. These abilities can be regained only if you
demonstrate your repentance with an atone ritual (page
390). The following acts are anathema to all druids.
Anathema despoil natural places, consume more natural
resources than you require to live comfortably, teach the
Wildsong to non-druids.
Your choice of druidic order adds further anathema, as
detailed in the order’s entry.
DRUID SPELLS PER DAY
Your Spell Rank
Level Cantrips 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 10th
1 5 2 — — — — — — — — —
2 5 3 — — — — — — — — —
3 5 3 2 — — — — — — — —
4 5 3 3 — — — — — — — —
5 5 3 3 2 — — — — — — —
6 5 3 3 3 — — — — — — —
7 5 3 3 3 2 — — — — — —
8 5 3 3 3 3 — — — — — —
9 5 3 3 3 3 2 — — — — —
10 5 3 3 3 3 3 — — — — —
11 5 3 3 3 3 3 2 — — — —
12 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 — — — —
13 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 — — —
14 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 — — —
15 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 — —
16 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 — —
17 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 —
18 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 —
19 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 1*
20 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 1*
*The primal hierophant class feature gives you a 10th-rank spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots.
Druidic Order
Upon becoming a druid, you align yourself with a druidic
order, which grants you a class feat, an order spell (see
below), and an additional trained skill tied to your order.
While you’ll always be a member of your initial order, it’s
not unheard of for a druid to request to study with other
orders in search of greater understanding of the natural
world, and PC druids are among the most likely to blend
the powers of different orders.
Order spells are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus
Point to cast a focus spell, and you start with a focus pool
of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool during your
daily preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus Point
by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity to
commune with local nature spirits or otherwise tend to
the wilderness in a way befitting your order.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half
your level rounded up, much like cantrips. Focus spells
don’t require spell slots, and you can’t cast them using
spell slots. Certain feats give you more focus spells. The
maximum Focus Points your focus pool can hold is equal
to the number of focus spells you have, but can never be
more than 3 points. The full rules for focus spells appear
in on page 298.
Order Skill You become trained in the listed skill. If you’re
already trained in that skill, you become trained in a
different skill of your choice.
Druid Feat You gain this 1st-level druid feat as a bonus feat.
Order Spell You automatically gain the listed order spell at
1st level.
Anathema Add this anathema to those for all druids.

Animal
You have a strong connection to beasts, always feeling
like you understood them (and they you) better than
your own people. You stand for the animals of nature, a
powerful animal companion at your side.
Order Skill Athletics
Druid Feat Animal Companion
Order Spell heal animal (page 382)
Anathema Commit wanton cruelty to animals or kill animals
unnecessarily. (This doesn’t prevent you from defending
yourself against animals or killing them cleanly for food).
Leaf
You revere the bounty of nature, acting as both a gardener
and warden for the wilderness. With your leshy familiar
at your side, you help areas regrow after disasters or
negligent expansion and turn flora against those who
would abuse them.
Order Skill Diplomacy
Druid Feat Leshy Familiar
Order Spell cornucopia (page 382)
Anathema Commit wanton cruelty to plants or fungi or
kill them unnecessarily. (This doesn’t prevent you from
defending yourself or harvesting them for survival.)
Storm
Whether you were born under a tempest or survived a
bolt of lightning from a clear blue sky, you now carry
the fury of the storm in your heart, channeling thunder
to terrifying destructive effect and riding the winds
through the air.
Order Skill Acrobatics
Druid Feat Storm Born
Order Spell tempest surge (page 382)
Anathema Pollute the air, allow those who cause major
air pollution or climate shifts to go unpunished. (This
doesn’t force you to take action against merely potential
environmental harm or to sacrifice yourself against an
obviously superior foe.)
Untamed
The uncontrollable call of the natural world courses
through your body. You might have been raised by a wild
animal, or you might have come to reject the artifices of
cities after growing up in one. Now, primal magic grants
you the ability to wear the form of an untamed creature.
Order Skill Intimidation
Druid Feat Untamed Form
Order Spell untamed shift (page 383)
Anathema Become fully domesticated by the temptations of
civilization. (This doesn’t prevent you from buying and using
processed goods or staying in a city for an adventure, but
you can never come to rely on these conveniences or truly
call such a place your permanent home.)
Shield Block
You gain the Shield Block general feat (found on page
262), a reaction that lets you reduce damage with
your shield.

Voice of Nature
You gain your choice of the Animal Empathy or Plant
Empathy druid feat.
Wildsong
You know the Wildsong, a secret language known only
within druid orders, in addition to any languages you
know through your ancestry. The Wildsong is a melodic
and tonal language sounding more like animal calls than
a spoken tongue, and its alphabet involves fractals and
spirals, like the arrangement of a seashell’s chambers,
a snowflake’s crystals, or a fern’s fronds. Teaching the
Wildsong to non-druids is anathema.
Druid Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every even-numbered level, you gain a
druid class feat. These begin on page 127.
Skill Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
feat. Skill feats appear in Chapter 4 and have the skill
trait. You must be trained or better in the corresponding
skill to select a skill feat.
Perception Expertise 3rd
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
General Feats 3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
Fortitude Expertise 3rd
Adventures have made your physique more hardy. Your
proficiency rank for Fortitude saves increases to expert.
Skill Increases 3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase either to increase
your proficiency rank to trained in one
skill you’re untrained in, or to increase
your proficiency rank in one skill in
which you’re already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill
increases to increase your proficiency
rank to master in a skill in which you’re
already an expert, and at 15th level, you
can use them to increase your proficiency
rank to legendary in a skill in which you’re
already a master.
Ancestry Feats 5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you
gain an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels
thereafter. The list of ancestry feats available to you
can be found in your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Reflex Expertise 5th
You’ve honed your ability to dodge dangers. Your
proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to expert.
Expert Spellcaster 7th
Your command of primal forces has deepened,
empowering your spells. Your proficiency ranks for spell
attack modifier and spell DC increase to expert.
Weapon Expertise 11th
You’ve improved your combat skill. Your proficiency
rank for simple weapons and unarmed attacks increases
to expert.
Wild Willpower 11th
Your primal will, like that of the greatest beast, can’t be
tamed. Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases to
master. When you roll a success at a Will save, you get a
critical success instead.
Medium Armor Expertise 13th
You’ve learned to defend yourself better against attacks.
Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor,
and unarmored defense increase to expert.
Weapon Specialization 13th
You inflict great injuries with the weapons you know best.
You deal 2 additional damage with weapons and unarmed
attacks in which you are an expert. This damage increases
to 3 if you’re a master, and to 4 if you’re legendary.
Master Spellcaster 15th
Primal magic answers your command. Your proficiency
ranks for spell attack modifier and spell DC increase to
master.
Legendary Spellcaster 19th
You have developed an unparalleled rapport with the
magic of nature. Your proficiency ranks for spell attack
modifier and spell DC increase to legendary.
Primal Hierophant 19th
You command the most potent forces of primal magic
and can cast a spell of truly incredible power. You gain
a single 10th-rank spell slot and can prepare a spell in
that slot using druid spellcasting. Unlike with other spell
slots, you can’t use 10-rank slots with abilities that give
you more spell slots or that let you cast spells without
expending spell slots. You don’t gain more 10th-rank
spells as you level up, but you can take the Hierophant’s
Power feat (page 135) to gain a second slot.
KEY TERMS

You’ll see the following key term in many druid class
features.
Spellshape: Actions with the spellshape trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come
from spellshape feats. You must use a spellshape action
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of
the spellshape action. Any additional effects added by a
spellshape action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the
spellshape action itself.
Druid Feats
At every level that you gain a druid feat, you can select one
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites
before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
ANIMAL COMPANION FEAT 1
DRUID
Prerequisites animal order
You gain the service of a young animal companion (page 206)
that travels with you on your adventures and obeys any simple
commands you give it to the best of its abilities.
ANIMAL EMPATHY FEAT 1
DRUID
You have a connection to the creatures of the natural world
that allows you to communicate with them on a rudimentary
level. You can ask questions of, receive answers from, and use
the Diplomacy skill with animals. In most cases, wild animals
will give you time to make your case.
LESHY FAMILIAR FEAT 1
DRUID
Prerequisites leaf order
You call a minor spirit of nature into a plant body, creating a
leshy companion to aid you in your spellcasting. You gain a
familiar, which has your choice of either the plant or fungus
familiar ability (page 212); this doesn’t count against your
usual limit of familiar abilities (typically 2). The spirit you call
has a more tenuous connection to its plant body than fully
independent leshies, so it is Tiny in size like other familiars.
PLANT EMPATHY FEAT 1
DRUID
You have a connection to flora that allows you to communicate
with them on a rudimentary level. You can ask questions of,
receive answers from, and use the Diplomacy skill with plants
and fungus.
REACH SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE DRUID SPELLSHAPE
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s
range by 30 feet. If the spell normally has a range of touch,
you extend its range to 30 feet.
DRUID FEATS BY NAME
Feat Level
Animal Companion 1
Animal Empathy 1
Anthropomorphic Shape 4
Call of the Wild 2
Current Spell 6
Deimatic Display 8
Dragon Shape 12
Effortless Concentration 16
Elemental Shape 10
Elemental Summons 4
Enhanced Familiar 2
Ferocious Shape 8
Fey Caller 8
Floral Restoration 8
Forest Passage 4
Form Control 4
Garland Spell 12
Grown of Oak 6
Healing Transformation 10
Hierophant’s Power 20
Impaling Briars 16
Incredible Companion 8
Insect Shape 6
Instinctive Support 6
Invoke Disaster 18
Leshy Familiar 1
Leshy Familiar Secrets 4
Ley Line Conduit 20
Mature Animal Companion 4
Monstrosity Shape 16
Order Explorer 2

Order Magic 4
Overwhelming Energy 10
Perfect Form Control 18
Plant Empathy 1
Plant Shape 10
Poison Resistance 2
Primal Aegis 18
Primal Focus 12
Primal Howl 10
Primal Summons 12
Pristine Weapon 10
Raise Menhir 8
Reach Spell 1
Reactive Transformation 14
Side by Side 10
Snowdrift Spell 4
Soaring Shape 8
Sow Spell 14
Specialized Companion 14
Steady Spellcasting 6
Storm Born 1
Storm Retribution 6
Thunderclap Spell 10
Timeless Nature 14
True Shapeshifter 20
Verdant Metamorphosis 14
Uplifting Winds 16
Widen Spell 1
Untamed Form 1
Wind Caller 8
Verdant Weapon 1
Wandering Oasis 12
STORM BORN FEAT 1
DRUID
Prerequisites storm order
You are at home out in the elements, reveling in the power of
nature unleashed. You do not take circumstance penalties to
ranged spell attacks or Perception checks caused by weather,
and your targeted spells don’t require a flat check to succeed
against a target concealed by weather (such as fog).
VERDANT WEAPON FEAT 1
DRUID EXPLORATION
You cultivate a seed that can sprout into a wooden staff, vine
whip, or another weapon. You spend 10 minutes focusing
primal energy into a seed, imprinting it with the potential of
a single level 0 weapon you are trained with and that has no
mechanical parts or metal components. When holding the
imprinted seed, you can use an Interact action to cause it to
immediately grow into that weapon; a second Interact action
returns it to seed form. The verdant weapon can be etched
with runes or affixed with talismans as normal, which are
suppressed when the weapon is in seed form.
You can have only one verdant seed at a time. If you prepare

a second, your first verdant seed immediately becomes a
mundane seed; any runes on the previous seed transfer to the
new seed at no cost, but inapplicable runes are suppressed.
WIDEN SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
DRUID MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE
You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to spread
out and affect a wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast
a Spell that has an area of a burst, cone, or line and does not
have a duration, increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to
the radius of a burst that normally has a radius of at least 10
feet (a burst with a smaller radius is not affected). Add 5 feet
to the length of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or
smaller, and add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
UNTAMED FORM FEAT 1
DRUID
Prerequisites untamed order
You are one with the wild, always changing and adapting to
meet any challenge. You gain the untamed form order spell
(page 382), which lets you transform into a variety of shapes
that you can expand with druid feats.
2ND LEVEL
CALL OF THE WILD FEAT 2
DRUID
You call upon the creatures of nature to come to your aid. You
can spend 10 minutes in concert with nature to replace a spell
you’ve prepared in one of your druid spell slots with a summon
animal or summon plant or fungus spell of the same rank.
ENHANCED FAMILIAR FEAT 2
DRUID
Prerequisites a familiar
You infuse your familiar with additional primal energy,
increasing its abilities. You can select four familiar or master
abilities each day, instead of two.
ORDER EXPLORER FEAT 2
DRUID
You have learned the secrets of another druidic order, passing
whatever rites of initiation that order requires and gaining
access to its secrets. Choose an order other than your own.
You gain a 1st-level feat that lists that order as a prerequisite,
and you are now a member of that order for the purpose of
meeting feat prerequisites. If you commit acts anathema to
your new order, you lose all feats and abilities requiring that
order but retain your other druid feats and abilities. You don’t

gain any of the other benefits of the order you chose.
Special You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you
do, you must choose a different order other than your own.
POISON RESISTANCE FEAT 2
DRUID
Your affinity for the natural world grants you protection
against some of its dangers. You gain poison resistance equal
to half your level, and you gain a +1 status bonus to saving
throws against poisons.
4TH LEVEL
ANTHROPOMORPHIC SHAPE FEAT 4
DRUID
Prerequisites Untamed Form
Humanoids’ supposed place apart from animals is folly—taking
on their forms just requires some extra practice. You add the
shapes listed in humanoid form to your untamed form list.
ELEMENTAL SUMMONS FEAT 4
DRUID
You can call the elements to you. You can spend 10 minutes in
concert with nature to replace a spell you’ve prepared in one
of your druid spell slots with a summon elemental spell of the
same rank.
Sample Druid
UNTAMED DRUID

Taking on the shapes of dangerous creatures, you fight
with feral intensity. Though you trust your instincts, you
might mistrust the ways of polite society.
Attributes

Prioritize Wisdom and Strength so you can cast spells
and enter melee combat. You’ll also want Dexterity and
Constitution to improve your defenses and survivability.

Skills
Acrobatics, Athletics, Intimidation, Nature
Order

Untamed

Higher-Level Feats

Form Control (4th), Insect Shape (6th), Soaring Shape
(8th), Plant Shape (10th), Monstrosity Shape (16th)
Prepared Spells

1st heal, runic body; Cantrips detect magic, ignition, know
the way, light, tangle vine
FOREST PASSAGE FEAT 4
DRUID
Prerequisites leaf order
You can always find a path, almost as if foliage parted before
you. You ignore any difficult terrain caused by plants and
fungi, such as bushes, vines, and undergrowth.
FORM CONTROL [one-action] FEAT 4
DRUID MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites Untamed Form
With additional care and effort, you can take on an alternate
shape for a longer period of time. If your next action is to
cast untamed form, the spell’s rank is 2 lower than normal
(minimum 1st rank), but you can remain transformed for up to
1 hour or the listed duration (whichever is longer). You can still
Dismiss untamed form as normal.
LESHY FAMILIAR SECRETS FEAT 4
DRUID
Prerequisites leaf order
The leaf order’s secrets allow your familiar to take advantage
of its leshy form. You can select one additional familiar ability
each day, which must be one of the following leshy familiar
abilities. You can’t select more than one ability from this feat
at a time.
• Grasping Tendrils Your familiar can extend vines or
similar tendrils, increasing its reach to 15 feet.
• Purify Air Your familiar recycles air, providing enough
oxygen for a Medium creature in areas with stale air,
such as a sealed chamber or extradimensional space.
Creatures within a 15-foot emanation of the leshy gain
a +2 circumstance bonus to their saving throws against
inhaled poison effects, olfactory effects, or other effects
that rely on breathing (such as toxic cloud), at the
GM’s discretion.
• Verdant Burst When your familiar dies, it releases
its primal energy to cast the 3-action version of heal,
heightened to a rank 1 lower than your highest-rank spell
slot. The heal spell gains a status bonus equal to twice
the spell’s rank to the Hit Points it restores to plants. You
must be able to cast 2nd-rank spells using spell slots to
select this familiar ability.
MATURE ANIMAL COMPANION FEAT 4
DRUID
Prerequisites Animal Companion
Your animal companion has grown up over the course of your
adventures, becoming a mature animal companion and gaining
additional capabilities (page 211).
Your animal companion has greater independence. During
an encounter, even if you don’t use the Command an Animal
action, your animal companion can still use 1 action that round
on your turn to Stride or Strike. It can do this at any point
during your turn, as long as you aren’t currently taking an
action. If it does, that’s all the actions it gets that round—you
can’t Command it later.
ORDER MAGIC FEAT 4
DRUID
Prerequisites Order Explorer
You have delved deeper into the teaching of a new order,
gaining access to a coveted order spell. Choose an order you
have selected with Order Explorer. You gain the initial order
spell from that order.
Special You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you
do, you must choose a different order you have selected
with Order Explorer.
SNOWDRIFT SPELL [one-action] FEAT 4
COLD DRUID MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites storm order
The howling wind and precipitation of your magic turn to thick
snow. If your next action is to Cast a Spell that has the air,
water, or cold trait, and that does not have the fire trait, select
one creature affected by the spell on the ground. Each square
on the ground under or adjacent to the creature fills with
ankle-deep snow. Those squares are difficult terrain until the
beginning of your next turn. A creature can Interact to clear a
square of snow, and the snow in a square melts if that square
is exposed to a fire effect.
6TH LEVEL
CURRENT SPELL [one-action] FEAT 6
CONCENTRATE DRUID SPELLSHAPE
As you use your magic to manipulate air or water, you spin off
some of its currents to form a barrier around you. If your next
action is to Cast a Spell with the air or water trait, until the
start of your next turn, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to AC
or a +2 circumstance bonus against ranged attacks. This effect
has the air or water trait, or both, depending on the traits of
the spell you cast. You also gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
all saves against effects with the air trait, water trait, or both
until the start of your next turn, depending on the spell’s traits.
GROWN OF OAK FEAT 6
DRUID
Prerequisites leaf order
You can make your skin take on the woody endurance of an
ancient tree and have your familiar follow suit. You can cast
oaken resilience at will as an innate primal spell with a spell
rank one lower than the highest rank of spells you can cast.
This spell targets you, as well as your leshy familiar if it’s
within 30 feet of you.
INSECT SHAPE FEAT 6
DRUID
Prerequisites Untamed Form
Your understanding of life expands, allowing you to mimic
a wider range of creatures. Add the shapes in insect form to
your untamed form list. Whenever you use untamed form to
polymorph into the non-flying insect shapes listed in pest
form, the duration is 24 hours instead of 10 minutes.

INSTINCTIVE SUPPORT [free-action] FEAT 6
DRUID
Prerequisites Animal Companion
Trigger You Cast a non-cantrip spell that targets only your
animal companion.
When you support your animal companion, your companion
supports you in turn. After your spell takes place, your
companion gains its actions for the turn, as if you Commanded
it, and one of the actions must be Support. If the companion has
used any other actions already, it can’t Support you, as normal.
STEADY SPELLCASTING FEAT 6
DRUID
Confident in your technique, you don’t lose spells easily. If a
reaction would disrupt your spellcasting action, attempt a DC
15 flat check. If you succeed, your action isn’t disrupted.
STORM RETRIBUTION [reaction] FEAT 6
DRUID
Prerequisites storm order, tempest surge order spell
Trigger An opponent adjacent to you critically hits you with a
melee weapon or melee unarmed attack.
Requirements You have at least 1 available Focus Point.
You lash out, directing a burst of storming fury toward a
creature that has harmed you. You cast tempest surge on the
triggering opponent and push that creature, moving it 5 feet
away from you if it fails its Reflex save, or 10 feet if it critically
fails. This movement is forced movement.
8TH LEVEL
DEIMATIC DISPLAY [one-action] FEAT 8
DRUID
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
Imitating animal threat displays, you make yourself appear
larger and more imposing. Roll one Intimidation check to
Demoralize and compare the result to the Will DC of each
animal, fungus, and plant creature in a 15-foot cone. When
you do, Demoralize gains the visual trait, and creatures are
not affected if they can see you. You don’t take a penalty if the
creature doesn’t understand your language.
FEROCIOUS SHAPE FEAT 8
DRUID
Prerequisites Untamed Form
You’ve mastered the shape of dinosaurs. Add the shapes listed
in dinosaur form to your untamed form list. Whenever you use
untamed form to take a shape that grants you a specific Athletics
modifier, you gain a +1 status bonus to your Athletics checks.
FEY CALLER FEAT 8
DRUID
You have learned some of the tricks the fey use to bend primal
magic toward illusions and trickery. Add illusory disguise,
illusory object, and illusory scene to your spell list, which you
cast as primal spells.
Sample Druid
STORM DRUID

You call upon the power of nature to let loose bolts of
lightning, intense weather, and elemental spells.
Attributes

Prioritize Wisdom. You typically stay at range, so take a
high Dexterity. You can identify creatures from the safety
of the air with high Intelligence.
Skills
Acrobatics, Medicine, Nature, Survival
Order

Storm

Feats

Widen Spell (1st), Storm Retribution (6th), Wind Caller
(8th), Primal Focus (12th), Invoke Disaster (18th)
Prepared Spells

1st breathe fire, gust of wind; Cantrips detect magic,
electric arc, frostbite, know the way, light
FLORAL RESTORATION [one-action] FEAT 8
DRUID HEALING VITALITY
Prerequisites leaf order
Frequency once per day
You request that nearby plants share their vitality with you to
replenish your body and magic. You regain 1 Focus Point and
4d8 Hit Points.
You must be in a location of at least 15 square feet with
healthy plant life, though this can be grass, lichen, seaweed,
or any other form of naturally occurring flora. Using Floral
Restoration on a given section of nature does not harm it, but
it prevents that section of nature from giving its vitality to
another use of Floral Restoration for 24 hours.
At 9th level, and every 2 levels thereafter, increase the
healing by 1d8.
INCREDIBLE COMPANION FEAT 8
DRUID
Prerequisites Mature Animal Companion
Your animal companion continues to grow and develop. It
becomes either a nimble or savage animal companion (page
211), gaining additional capabilities determined by the type.
RAISE MENHIR [two-actions] FEAT 8
DRUID
Frequency once per hour
You raise a druidic monument, such as a standing stone or
warding tree, from the ground, creating a powerful primal
ward that blocks other types of magic. The monument
appears in an unoccupied square on the ground within 30
feet, making that square difficult terrain. Choose arcane,
divine, or occult; all creatures within 15 feet of the
monument gain a +2 status bonus to their saving throws
against effects with that trait. The monument lasts for 1
round before crumbling back into the earth or wilting away
into nothingness, but you can Sustain the monument for up
to 1 minute.
SOARING SHAPE FEAT 8
DRUID
Prerequisites Untamed Form
Wings free you from the shackles of the ground below. Add
the bat and bird shapes in aerial form to your untamed form
list. If you have Insect Shape, you also add the wasp shape
to your untamed form list. If you have Ferocious Shape, you
also add the pterosaur shape to your untamed form list.
Whenever you use untamed form to take a shape that grants
you a specific Acrobatics modifier, you gain a +1 status bonus
to Acrobatics checks.
WIND CALLER FEAT 8
DRUID
Prerequisites storm order
You bid the winds to aid you, carrying you through the air and
allowing you passage through the strongest headwinds. You
gain the stormwind flight order spell (page 382).
10TH LEVEL
ELEMENTAL SHAPE FEAT 10
DRUID
Prerequisites Untamed Form
You understand the fundamental elements of nature such that
you can imbue them into your body and manifest as a living
embodiment of those elements. Add the shapes in elemental
form to your untamed form list. Whenever you’re polymorphed
into another shape using untamed form, you gain resistance 5
to fire.
HEALING TRANSFORMATION [one-action] FEAT 10
DRUID SPELLSHAPE
You can take advantage of shapechanging magic to close

wounds and patch injuries. If your next action is to cast a non-
cantrip polymorph spell that targets only one creature, your

polymorph spell also restores 1d6 Hit Points per spell rank to
that creature. This is a healing effect.
OVERWHELMING ENERGY [one-action] FEAT 10
DRUID MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE
With a complex gesture, you call upon the primal power of
your spell to overcome enemies’ resistances. If the next action
you use is to Cast a Spell, the spell ignores an amount of
the target’s resistance to acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic
damage equal to your level. This applies to all damage the spell
deals, including persistent damage and damage caused by an
ongoing effect of the spell, such as the wall created by wall of
fire. A creature’s immunities are unaffected.
PLANT SHAPE FEAT 10
DRUID
Prerequisites leaf order or Untamed Form
You can take the shape of a plant creature. If you don’t have
untamed form, you can cast plant form once per day, heightened
to the same rank as your highest-rank druid spell slot.
If you do have untamed form, add the shapes listed in
plant form to your untamed form list, and whenever you’re
polymorphed into another shape using untamed form, you
gain resistance 5 to poison.
PRIMAL HOWL FEAT 10
DRUID
Prerequisites Incredible Companion
Your companion can let out a howl laced with your primal
magic. It gains the following advanced maneuver, in addition
to any advanced maneuvers it already knows.
Primal Howl [two-actions] (primal, sonic) Frequency once per hour;
Effect Your familiar screeches and howls, empowered with
natural magic. All creatures in a 30-foot cone take 1d6
sonic damage for every 2 levels your companion has, with
a basic Fortitude save against your spell DC. Creatures that
fail become frightened 1, and creatures that critically fail
become frightened 2. The fright is an emotion, fear, and
mental effect.

PRISTINE WEAPON FEAT 10
DRUID
Prerequisites Verdant Weapon
Your verdant weapon can cut through the resistances of
magical creatures. The weapon is treated as cold iron and silver.
If you critically hit a creature that has a weakness to cold iron
or silver, the target takes 1d6 persistent bleed damage as the
primal energies within your weapon slow its natural healing.
SIDE BY SIDE FEAT 10
DRUID
Prerequisites Animal Companion
You and your animal companion fight in tandem, distracting
your foes and keeping them off balance. Whenever you and
your animal companion are adjacent to the same foe, you are
both flanking that foe with each other, regardless of your
actual positions.
THUNDERCLAP SPELL [one-action] FEAT 10
DRUID SONIC SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites storm order
Your lightning splits the air, generating a booming shock wave.
If your next action is to Cast a Spell that has the electricity
trait or deals electricity damage, has no duration, and requires
creatures to attempt a saving throw, the force of the spell’s
lightning creates a thunderclap, in addition to its other effects.
Each creature that failed its Reflex save against the spell is
deafened for 1 round, and those who critically failed are also
knocked prone.
12TH LEVEL
DRAGON SHAPE FEAT 12
DRUID
Prerequisites Soaring Shape
You can take on the shape of some of the world’s most
fearsome creatures. Add the shapes listed in dragon form to
your untamed form list. Whenever you’re polymorphed into
another shape using untamed form, you gain resistance 5 to
your choice of acid, cold, electricity, fire, or poison.
GARLAND SPELL [one-action] FEAT 12
DRUID MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites plant order
If your next action is to Cast a Spell with the fungus or plant
trait, a garland of plants grows in a 10-foot burst in the spell’s
range. The plants are difficult terrain and hazardous terrain,
covered in your choice of thorns or poisonous vines. Any
creature that moves into one of these squares or ends its
turn in one takes 2d6 damage (piercing damage for thorns or
poison for vines). A creature can take this damage only once
per turn. You and your familiar are immune to this damage.
The plants last for 1 minute or until you cast another Garland
Spell, whichever comes first.
The damage increases to 3d6 at 16th level and 4d6 at
20th level.
Sample Druid
LEAF DRUID

You’re a nurturing caretaker in tune with the natural
world and the magic of life. A little plant creature called a
leshy accompanies you.
Attributes

Prioritize Wisdom. Take Dexterity and Constitution for
your defenses, and Charisma to be more diplomatic or
Strength if you want to deal more damage in melee.

Skills
Diplomacy, Medicine, Nature, Survival
Order

Leaf

Feats

Call of the Wild (2nd), Forest Passage (4th), Green
Empathy (6th), Plant Shape (10th), Green Tongue (12th)

Prepared Spells

1st heal, summon plant or fungus; Cantrips detect magic,
know the way, light, stabilize, tangle vine
PRIMAL FOCUS FEAT 12
DRUID
Your connection to nature is particularly strong, and the spirits
of nature flock around you, helping you replenish your focus.
Whenever you Refocus, completely refill your focus pool.
PRIMAL SUMMONS FEAT 12
DRUID
Prerequisites Call of the Wild
Whenever you summon an ally, you can empower it with
the elemental power of air, earth, fire, or water. You gain the
primal summons order spell (page 381).
WANDERING OASIS FEAT 12
DRUID
Prerequisites master in Survival
You’re surrounded by soothing energy. You and allies within 60
feet of you are protected from severe environmental heat and
cold. If you’re legendary in Survival, you and those allies are also
protected from extreme environmental heat and cold.
14TH LEVEL
REACTIVE TRANSFORMATION [reaction] FEAT 14
DRUID
Prerequisites Untamed Form; Dragon Shape, Elemental Shape,
Plant Shape, or Soaring Shape
Trigger varies
You transform reflexively when in danger. You cast untamed
form to transform into one shape granted by one of the
prerequisite feats you have, depending on the trigger. Your
shape’s resistances and weaknesses apply against the
triggering damage.
• Trigger You fall 10 feet or more; Effect Choose a shape
from aerial form.
• Trigger You take acid, cold, electricity, fire, or poison
damage; Effect Choose a shape from dragon form that
resists the triggering damage.
• Trigger You take fire damage; Effect Choose a fire
elemental shape from elemental form.
• Trigger You take poison damage; Effect Choose a shape
from plant form.
SOW SPELL [one-action] FEAT 14
CONCENTRATE DRUID SPELLSHAPE
You fold your spell into a seed. If your next action is to Cast a
Spell using 1 action or 2 actions, the spell instead plants itself
in an adjacent square. You must make all decisions regarding
the spell at the time you cast it. Within the next 10 minutes,
you can direct your sown spell to sprout and produce the spell’s
effects as a reaction, which is triggered when a creature enters
the sown spell’s space or a square adjacent to it. You can have
only one sown spell at a time, and if you don’t trigger the spell
within 10 minutes, it dissipates and the spell is lost. A creature
can notice the sown spell with a successful Perception check
against your spell DC.
SPECIALIZED COMPANION FEAT 14
DRUID
Prerequisites Incredible Companion
Your animal companion continues to grow in power and ability.
It gains one specialization of your choice (page 211.)
Special You can select this feat up to three times. Each time,
add a different specialization to your companion.
TIMELESS NATURE FEAT 14
DRUID
With primal magic sustaining you, you cease aging. The
overflowing primal energy gives you a +2 status bonus to saves
against diseases and primal magic.
VERDANT METAMORPHOSIS FEAT 14
DRUID
Prerequisites leaf order
You have turned into a plant version of yourself, gaining the
plant trait and losing traits inappropriate for your new form
(typically humanoid). You also gain the Verdant Rest action.

Verdant Rest [one-action] (concentrate) You turn into a tree or other non-
creature plant. This has the effect of using one with plants to

turn into a plant, except that your AC is 30. You can Dismiss
this effect to turn back. If you rest for 10 minutes in this
form in natural sunlight, you recover half your maximum Hit
Points. If you take your daily rest in this form, the rest restores
you to maximum Hit Points and removes all non-permanent
drained, enfeebled, clumsy, and stupefied conditions, as well
as all poisons and diseases of 19th level or lower.
16TH LEVEL
EFFORTLESS CONCENTRATION [free-action] FEAT 16
DRUID
Trigger Your turn begins.
You maintain a spell with hardly a thought. You immediately
gain the effects of the Sustain action, allowing you to extend
the duration of one of your active druid spells.
IMPALING BRIARS FEAT 16
DRUID
Prerequisites leaf order
You can fill an area with devastating briars. You gain the
impaling briars order spell (page 382).
MONSTROSITY SHAPE FEAT 16
DRUID
Prerequisites Untamed Form
You can transform into a powerful magical creature. Add the
cave worm and sea serpent shapes listed in monstrosity form
to your untamed form list. If you have Soaring Shape, also add
the phoenix shape to your untamed form list.
UPLIFTING WINDS FEAT 16
DRUID
Prerequisites storm order

The winds are eager to keep you aloft. When you are flying and
Cast a Spell that has the air or electricity traits, you gain a +10
status bonus to your fly Speed, and you can immediately Fly up
to half your Speed.
18TH LEVEL
INVOKE DISASTER FEAT 18
DRUID
Prerequisites Wind Caller
You can invoke nature’s fury upon your foes. You gain the storm
lord order spell (page 382).
PERFECT FORM CONTROL FEAT 18
DRUID
Prerequisites Form Control, Strength +4
Thanks to magic and muscle memory, you can stay in your
alternate shapes indefinitely. When you use Form Control,
instead of lasting 1 hour, untamed form’s duration is unlimited
(you can still Dismiss it).
PRIMAL AEGIS FEAT 18
DRUID
You surround yourself with a thick field of protective primal
energy. You and allies within 30 feet of you gain resistance
equal to your Wisdom modifier to acid, cold, electricity, fire,
vitality, and void damage.
20TH LEVEL
HIEROPHANT’S POWER FEAT 20
DRUID
You have entwined yourself with the natural world, and its
full power flows through you. You gain an additional 10th-rank
spell slot.
LEY LINE CONDUIT [one-action] FEAT 20
CONCENTRATE DRUID MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE
Frequency once per minute
You can draw magic from the ley lines of the world. If your
next action is to Cast a Spell of 5th rank or lower that has no
duration, you don’t expend the prepared spell as you cast it.
TRUE SHAPESHIFTER FEAT 20
CONCENTRATE DRUID
Prerequisites Dragon Shape, Untamed Form
You transcend the limitations of form. Once per day you can
cast nature incarnate, even if you don’t have it prepared, to
transform into a kaiju. If you have Plant Shape, you can choose
to transform into a green man instead. You also gain the True
Shapeshift activity.
True Shapeshift [two-actions] (concentrate) Requirements You’re under
the effects of untamed form; Effect You change into any
other shape on your untamed form list. If the duration of that
shape is different from the one you were previously in, use
the shorter duration to determine your duration remaining.
FIGHTER
Fighting for honor, greed, loyalty, or simply the thrill of battle, you are an
undisputed master of weaponry and combat techniques. You combine your
actions through clever combinations of opening moves, finishing strikes, and
counterattacks whenever your foes are unwise enough to drop their guard. Whether
you are a knight, mercenary, sharpshooter, or blade master, you have honed your martial
skills into an art form and perform devastating critical attacks on your enemies.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Strength or Dexterity
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to your choice
of Strength or Dexterity.
HIT POINTS
10 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Expert in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Expert in Fortitude
Expert in Reflex
Trained in Will
SKILLS
Trained in your choice of Acrobatics or
Athletics
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 3 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Expert in simple weapons
Expert in martial weapons
Trained in advanced weapons
Expert in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in all armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in fighter class DC
During combat encounters...
You strike with unmatched accuracy and use specialized combat techniques.
A melee fighter stands between allies and enemies, attacking foes who try to
get past. A ranged fighter delivers precise shots from a distance, but can hold
their own if forced into melee.
During social encounters...
You can be an intimidating presence. This can be useful when negotiating
with enemies but is sometimes a liability in more genteel interactions. On the
other hand, those comfortable with conflict may find you more trustworthy
and less threatening because you don’t rely on magic.
While exploring...
You keep up your defenses in preparation for combat and keep an eye out for
hidden threats. You also overcome physical challenges in your way, breaking
down doors, lifting obstacles, climbing adeptly, and leaping across pits.
In downtime...
You might perform manual labor or craft and repair armaments. If you
know techniques you no longer favor, you might train yourself in new ones.
If you’ve established your reputation, you might build an organization or a
stronghold of your own.
You might...
• Know the purpose and quality of every weapon and piece of armor
you own.
• Recognize that the danger of an adventurer’s life must be balanced out
with great revelry or ambitious works.
• Have little patience for puzzles or problems that require detailed logic
or study.
Others probably...
• Find you intimidating until they get to know you—and maybe even
after they get to know you.
• Expect you’re all brawn and no brains, especially when it comes to more
esoteric areas of study.
• Respect your expertise in the art of warfare and value your opinion on
the quality of armaments.
FIGHTER ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1 Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, Reactive Strike, fighter
feat, Shield Block
2 Fighter feat, skill feat
3 Bravery, general feat, skill increase
4 Fighter feat, skill feat
5 Ancestry feat, attribute boosts, fighter weapon
mastery, skill increase
6 Fighter feat, skill feat
7 Battlefield surveyor, general feat, skill increase,
weapon specialization
8 Fighter feat, skill feat
9 Ancestry feat, battle hardened, combat
flexibility, skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, fighter feat, skill feat
11 Armor expertise, fighter expertise, general feat,
skill increase
12 Fighter feat, skill feat
13 Ancestry feat, skill increase, weapon legend
14 Fighter feat, skill feat
15 Attribute boosts, general feat, greater weapon
specialization, improved flexibility, skill
increase, tempered reflexes
16 Fighter feat, skill feat
17 Ancestry feat, armor mastery, skill increase
18 Fighter feat, skill feat
19 General feat, skill increase, versatile legend
20 Attribute boosts, fighter feat, skill feat
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a fighter. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to
the features’ names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background. These are described in Chapter 2.
Attribute Boosts
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st
level, you have four free boosts to different attribute
modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four
free boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute
modifier is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to
increase it; you get a partial boost and must boost that
attribute again at a later level to increase it by 1.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training in attacks, defenses,
Perception, skills, and other areas. These are noted at
the start of this class.

Reactive Strike
Ever watchful for weaknesses, you can quickly attack
foes that leave an opening in their defenses. You gain the
Reactive Strike reaction.
REACTIVE STRIKE [reaction]
Trigger A creature within your reach uses a manipulate action
or a move action, makes a ranged attack, or leaves a square
during a move action it’s using.
You lash out at a foe that leaves an opening. Make a melee Strike
against the triggering creature. If your attack is a critical hit and
the trigger was a manipulate action, you disrupt that action.
This Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple attack penalty,
and your multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply to this Strike.
Fighter Feats
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain a
fighter class feat. These begin on page 140.
Shield Block
You gain the Shield Block general feat (found on page 266),
a reaction that lets you reduce damage with your shield.
Skill Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the
corresponding skill to select a skill feat.
Bravery 3rd
Having faced countless foes and the chaos of battle, you
have learned how to stand strong in the face of fear. Your
proficiency rank for Will saves increases to expert. When
you roll a success at a Will save against a fear effect, you
get a critical success instead. In addition, anytime you
gain the frightened condition, reduce its value by 1.
General Feats 3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
Skill Increases 3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
skill increase. You can use this increase to either become
trained in one skill you’re untrained in or become an
expert in one skill in which you’re already trained.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a
skill in which you’re already a master.
Ancestry Feats 5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you
gain an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels
thereafter. The list of ancestry feats available to you can
be found in your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Fighter Weapon Mastery 5th
Hours spent training with your preferred weapons,
learning and developing new combat techniques, have
made you particularly effective with your weapons of
choice. Choose one weapon group. Your proficiency
rank increases to master with the simple weapons,
martial weapons, and unarmed attacks in that group,
and to expert with the advanced weapons in that group.
You gain access to the critical specialization effects (page
283) of all weapons and unarmed attacks for which you
have master proficiency.
Battlefield Surveyor 7th
Whether taking stock of an enemy army or simply standing
guard, you excel at observing your foes. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to master. In addition, you
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks for
initiative, making you faster to react during combat.
Weapon Specialization 7th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master,
and 4 if you’re legendary.
Battle Hardened 9th
Your experience in battle helps protect you against magic
and toxins alike. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude
saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a
Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead.
Combat Flexibility 9th
You can prepare your tactics to suit different situations.
When you make your daily preparations, you gain
one fighter feat of 8th level or lower that you meet the
prerequisites for and don’t already have. You can use
that feat until your next daily preparations.
Armor Expertise 11th
You have spent so much time in armor that you know
how to make the most of its protection. Your proficiency
ranks for light, medium, and heavy armor, as well as
for unarmored defense, increase to expert. You gain the
armor specialization effects of medium and heavy armor.
Fighter Expertise 11th
Your practiced techniques have made you even more
formidable. Your proficiency rank for your fighter class
DC increases to expert.
Weapon Legend 13th
You’ve learned fighting techniques that apply to all
armaments, and you’ve developed unparalleled skill
with your favorite weapons. Your proficiency ranks for
simple weapons, martial weapons, and unarmed attacks

increase to master. Your proficiency rank for advanced
weapons increases to expert.
You can select one weapon group and increase your
proficiency ranks to legendary for all simple weapons,
martial weapons, and unarmed attacks in that weapon
group, and to master for all advanced weapons in that
weapon group.
Greater Weapon Specialization 15th
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
Improved Flexibility 15th
Your extensive experience gives you even greater ability
to adapt to each day’s challenges. When you use combat
flexibility, you can gain two fighter feats instead of one.
While the first feat must still be 8th level or lower, the
second feat can be up to 14th level, and you can use the
first feat to meet the prerequisites of the second feat. You
must meet all of the feats’ prerequisites.
Tempered Reflexes 15th
Practiced reflexes let you find safety even in the face of
cataclysmic explosions. Your proficiency rank for Reflex
saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a
Reflex save, you get a critical success instead.
Armor Mastery 17th
Your skill with armor improves further. Your proficiency
ranks for light, medium, and heavy armor, as well as for
unarmored defense, increase to master.
Versatile Legend 19th
You are nigh-unmatched with any weapon. Your
proficiency ranks for simple weapons, martial weapons,
and unarmed attacks increase to legendary, and your
proficiency rank for advanced weapons increases to
master. Your proficiency rank for your fighter class DC
increases to master.
KEY TERMS

Below are some key terms in many fighter class features.
Flourish: Actions with the flourish trait are special
techniques that require too much exertion for you to
perform frequently. You can use only one action with
the flourish trait per round.
Press: Actions with this trait allow you to follow up
earlier attacks. An action with the press trait can be used
only if you are currently affected by a multiple attack
penalty. You can’t use a press action when it’s not your
turn, even if you use the Ready activity.
Some actions with the press trait also grant an effect
on a failure. The effects that are added on a failure don’t
apply on a critical failure. If your press action succeeds,
you can choose to apply the failure effect instead. (For
example, you may wish to do this when an attack deals
no damage due to resistance.)
Stance: A stance is a general combat strategy that
you enter by using an action with the stance trait, and
you remain in for some time. A stance lasts until you get
knocked out, until its requirements (if any) are violated,
until the encounter ends, or until you use a stance action
again, whichever comes first. After you take an action
with the stance trait, you can’t take another one for 1
round. You can enter or be in a stance only in encounter
mode. You can Dismiss a stance.
Fighter Feats
At each level that you gain a fighter feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before taking the feat.

1ST LEVEL
COMBAT ASSESSMENT [one-action] FEAT 1
FIGHTER
You make a telegraphed attack to learn about your foe. Make a
melee Strike. On a hit, you can immediately attempt a check to
Recall Knowledge about the target. On a critical hit, you gain a
+2 circumstance bonus to the check to Recall Knowledge. The
target is temporarily immune to Combat Assessment for 1 day.
DOUBLE SLICE [two-actions] FEAT 1
FIGHTER
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, each in a
different hand.
You lash out at your foe with both weapons. Make two Strikes,
one with each of your two melee weapons, each using your
current multiple attack penalty. Both Strikes must have the
same target. If the second Strike is made with a weapon that
doesn’t have the agile trait, it takes a –2 penalty.
If both attacks hit, combine their damage, and then add
any other applicable effects from both weapons. You add
any precision damage only once, to the attack of your choice.
Combine the damage from both Strikes and apply resistances
and weaknesses only once. This counts as two attacks when
calculating your multiple attack penalty.
EXACTING STRIKE [one-action] FEAT 1
FIGHTER PRESS
You make a controlled follow-up attack, fully accounting for
your momentum. Make a Strike. The Strike gains the following
failure effect.
Failure This attack doesn’t count toward your multiple attack
penalty.
POINT BLANK STANCE [one-action] FEAT 1
FIGHTER STANCE
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon.
You take aim to pick off nearby enemies quickly. When
using a ranged volley weapon while you are in this
stance, you don’t take the penalty to your attack
rolls from the volley trait. When using a ranged
weapon that doesn’t have the volley trait, you
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to damage rolls on
attacks against targets within the weapon’s first
range increment.
REACTIVE SHIELD [reaction] FEAT 1
FIGHTER
Trigger An enemy hits you with a melee Strike.
Requirements You are wielding a shield.
You can snap your shield into place just as you would take
a blow, avoiding the hit at the last second. You immediately
use the Raise a Shield action and gain your shield’s bonus
to AC. The circumstance bonus from the shield applies
to your AC when you’re determining the outcome of the
triggering attack.
SNAGGING STRIKE [one-action] FEAT 1
FIGHTER
Requirements You have one hand free, and your target is
within reach of that hand.
You combine an attack with quick grappling moves to throw
an enemy off balance as long as it stays in your reach. Make
a Strike while keeping one hand free. If this Strike hits, the
target is off-guard until the start of your next turn or until
it’s no longer within the reach of your hand, whichever
comes first.
SUDDEN CHARGE [two-actions] FEAT 1
FIGHTER FLOURISH
With a quick sprint, you dash up to your foe and swing. Stride
twice. If you end your movement within melee reach of at least
one enemy, you can make a melee Strike against that enemy.
You can use Sudden Charge while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying,
or Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding
movement type.
VICIOUS SWING [two-actions] FEAT 1
FIGHTER FLOURISH
You unleash a particularly powerful attack that clobbers
your foe but leaves you a bit unsteady. Make a melee Strike.
This counts as two attacks when calculating your multiple
attack penalty. If this Strike hits, you deal an extra die of
weapon damage. If you’re at least 10th level, increase this to
two extra dice, and if you’re at least 18th level, increase it to
three extra dice.
2ND LEVEL
AGGRESSIVE BLOCK [reaction] FEAT 2
FIGHTER
Trigger You use the Shield Block reaction, and the opponent
that triggered Shield Block is adjacent to you and is your
size or smaller.
You push back as you block, knocking your foe away or off
balance. You use your shield to push the triggering creature,
either automatically Shoving it 5 feet or causing it to become
off-guard until the start of your next turn. The triggering
creature chooses whether to be moved or become off-guard.
If it chooses to be moved, you choose the direction. If the
Shove would cause it to hit a solid object, enter a square
of difficult terrain, or enter another creature’s space, it must
become off-guard instead of being moved.
ASSISTING SHOT [one-action] FEAT 2
FIGHTER PRESS
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon.
Using your last shot to gauge your accuracy, you can fire off
a quick shot to interfere with a foe in combat. Make a Strike
with a ranged weapon. If the Strike hits, the next creature
other than you to attack the same target before the start of
your next turn gains a +1 circumstance bonus to their roll, or a
+2 circumstance bonus if your Strike was a critical hit.

BLADE BRAKE [reaction] FEAT 2
FIGHTER MANIPULATE
Trigger You would be moved by a forced movement effect.
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon and are
within reach of a hard surface.
You plow your weapon into a floor, wall, or another sturdy
surface, anchoring yourself in place. If you would be moved
20 feet or more, you are moved only 5 feet. Otherwise, you
don’t move at all.
BRUTISH SHOVE [one-action] FEAT 2
FIGHTER PRESS
Requirements You are wielding a two-handed melee weapon.
Using the momentum of your last attack to throw your weight
into another, you make your opponent stumble back. Make a
Strike with a two-handed melee weapon. If you hit a target that
is your size or smaller, that creature is off-guard until the end
of your current turn, and you can automatically Shove it, with
the same benefits as the Shove action (including the critical
success effect, if your Strike was a critical hit). If you move
to follow the target, your movement doesn’t trigger reactions.
This Strike has the following failure effect.
Failure The target becomes off-guard until the end of your
current turn.
COMBAT GRAB [one-action] FEAT 2
FIGHTER PRESS
Requirements You have one hand free, and your target is
within reach of that hand.
Using your prior attack to shift your opponent’s guard, you
take another swing and grab them. Make a melee Strike while
keeping one hand free. If the Strike hits, you grab the target
using your free hand. The creature remains grabbed until the
end of your next turn or until it Escapes, whichever comes first.
DUELING PARRY [one-action] FEAT 2
FIGHTER
Requirements You are wielding a single one-handed melee
weapon and hold nothing else in your hands.
You can parry attacks against you with your one-handed
weapon. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to AC until the
start of your next turn as long as you continue to meet the
requirements.
INTIMIDATING STRIKE [two-actions] FEAT 2
EMOTION FEAR FIGHTER MENTAL
Your blow not only wounds creatures but also shatters their
confidence. Make a melee Strike. If you hit and deal damage,
the target is frightened 1, or frightened 2 on a critical hit.
LIGHTNING SWAP [one-action] FEAT 2
FIGHTER FLOURISH
You have practiced quickly switching between combat styles
and the equipment needed for them. You Interact to stow
any number of items from your hands, then draw up to two
weapons or a shield and a weapon.
FIGHTER FEATS BY NAME
Feat Level
Advanced Weapon Training 6
Advantageous Assault 6
Aggressive Block 2
Agile Grace 10
Assisting Shot 2
Barreling Charge 4
Blade Break 2
Blind-Fight 8
Boundless Reprisals 20
Brutal Finish 12
Brutish Shove 2
Certain Strike 10
Combat Assessment 1
Combat Grab 2
Crashing Slam 10
Cut from the Air 10
Dashing Strike 12
Dazing Blow 6
Debilitating Shot 10
Desperate Finisher 14
Determination 14
Disarming Stance 6
Disarming Twist 10
Disorienting Opening 8
Disruptive Stance 10
Double Shot 4
Double Slice 1
Dual-Handed Assault 4
Dueling Dance 12
Dueling Parry 2
Dueling Riposte 8
Exacting Strike 1
Fearsome Brute 10
Felling Strike 8
Flinging Charge 10
Flinging Shove 12
Furious Focus 6
Graceful Poise 16
Guardian’s Deflection 6
Guiding Finish 14
Guiding Riposte 14
Impossible Volley 18
Improved Dueling Riposte 12
Improved Reflexive Shield 16
Improved Twin Riposte 14
Incredible Aim 8

Incredible Ricochet 12
Intimidating Strike 2
Lightning Swap 2
Lunge 2
Lunging Stance 12
Master of Many Styles 16
Mirror Shield 10
Mobile Shot Stance 8
Multishot Stance 16
Opening Stance 14
Overpowering Charge 10
Overwhelming Blow 16
Paragon’s Guard 12
Parting Shot 4
Point Blank Stance 1
Positioning Assault 8
Powerful Shove 4
Quick Reversal 4
Quick Shield Block 8
Reactive Shield 1
Rebounding Toss 2
Reflexive Shield 6
Resounding Bravery 8
Revealing Stab 6
Ricochet Stance 6
Savage Critical 18
Shatter Defenses 6
Shield Warden 6
Shielded Stride 4
Slam Down 4
Sleek Reposition 2
Smash from the Air 18
Snagging Strike 1
Sudden Charge 1
Sudden Leap 8
Swipe 4
Tactical Reflexes 10
Triple Shot 6
Twinned Defense 16
Twin Parry 4
Twin Riposte 10
Two-Weapon Flurry 14
Ultimate Flexibility 20
Vicious Swing 1
Weapon Supremacy 20
Whirlwind Strike 14
LUNGE [one-action] FEAT 2
FIGHTER
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon.
You attack an enemy at the edge of your reach. Make a Strike
with a melee weapon, increasing your reach by 5 feet for that
Strike. If the weapon has the disarm, shove, or trip trait, you
can use the corresponding action instead of a Strike.

REBOUNDING TOSS [two-actions] FEAT 2
FIGHTER FLOURISH
Requirements You are wielding a thrown weapon.
You bounce your weapon off one foe to strike another. Make
a ranged Strike with a thrown weapon. If this Strike hits,
the weapon rebounds toward an enemy within 10 feet of the
original target. Make an additional Strike against this second
target. Both attacks count toward your multiple attack
penalty, but the penalty doesn’t increase until after you’ve
made both attacks.
SLEEK REPOSITION [one-action] FEAT 2
FIGHTER PRESS
Requirements You are wielding a finesse weapon or polearm.
While your opponent is still recovering from your prior
attack, you snag its armor, clothing, or flesh to move it as
you please. Make a melee Strike with a finesse weapon or
polearm. If you hit a target that is your size or smaller, you
can automatically Reposition it, with the same benefits as the
Reposition action (including the critical success effect, if your
Strike was a critical hit). If you used a weapon with reach,
use the weapon’s reach for this Reposition.
This Strike has the following failure effect.
Failure The target becomes off-guard until the end of your
current turn.
4TH LEVEL
BARRELING CHARGE [two-actions] FEAT 4
FIGHTER FLOURISH
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You rush forward, moving enemies aside to reach your foe.
You Stride, attempting to move through your enemies’ spaces,
and make a melee Strike. Roll an Athletics check and compare
the result to the Fortitude DC of each creature whose space
you attempt to move through during your Stride, moving
through their space on a success but ending your movement
before entering their space on a failure. You can use Barreling
Charge to Burrow, Climb, Fly, or Swim instead of Stride if you
have the corresponding movement type.
DOUBLE SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 4
FIGHTER FLOURISH
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with reload 0.
You shoot twice in blindingly fast succession. Make two
Strikes, each against a separate target and with a –2
penalty. Both attacks count toward your multiple attack
penalty, but the penalty doesn’t increase until after you’ve
made both of them.
DUAL-HANDED ASSAULT [one-action] FEAT 4
FIGHTER FLOURISH
Requirements You are wielding a one-handed melee weapon
and have a free hand.
You snap your free hand over to grip your weapon just long
enough to add momentum and deliver a more powerful blow
to your opponent. Make a Strike with the required weapon.
You quickly switch your grip during the Strike in order to make
the attack with two hands. If the weapon doesn’t normally
have the two-hand trait, increase its weapon damage die by
one step for this attack. (Rules on increasing die size appear on
page 276.) If the weapon has the two-hand trait, you gain the
benefit of that trait and a circumstance bonus to damage equal

to the weapon’s number of damage dice. When the Strike is
complete, you resume gripping the weapon with only one
hand. This action doesn’t end any stance or fighter feat effect
that requires you to have one hand free.
PARTING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 4
FIGHTER
Requirements You are wielding a loaded ranged weapon or a
ranged weapon with reload 0.
You jump back and make a quick shot that catches your
opponent by surprise. You Step and then make a ranged
Strike with the required weapon. Your target is off-guard
against the attack.
POWERFUL SHOVE FEAT 4
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Aggressive Block or Brutish Shove
You can push larger foes around with your attack. You can
use Aggressive Block or Brutish Shove against a creature up
to two sizes larger than you.
When a creature you Shove or knock back with a shield,
polearm, or club’s critical specialization effect has to stop
moving because it would hit an object, it takes damage equal
to your Strength modifier (minimum 1).
QUICK REVERSAL [one-action] FEAT 4
FIGHTER FLOURISH PRESS
Requirements You are flanked by at least two enemies.
You turn your foes’ flanking against them with a quick
reverse. Make a melee Strike against one of the flanking
enemies and make a second Strike with the same weapon
or unarmed attack against a different enemy that is flanking
you. This second Strike has the same multiple attack penalty
of the initial attack and doesn’t count toward your multiple
attack penalty.
SHIELDED STRIDE FEAT 4
FIGHTER
When your shield is up, your enemies’ blows can’t touch
you. When you have your shield raised, you can Stride to
move half your Speed without triggering reactions that are
triggered by your movement (such as Reactive Strikes). You
can use Shielded Stride while Flying or Swimming instead of
Striding if you have the corresponding movement type.
SLAM DOWN [two-actions] FEAT 4
FIGHTER FLOURISH
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You make an attack to knock a foe off balance, then follow
up immediately with a sweep to topple them. Make a
melee Strike. If it hits and deals damage, you can attempt
an Athletics check to Trip the creature you hit. If you’re
wielding a two-handed melee weapon, you can ignore Trip’s
requirement that you have a hand free. Both attacks count
toward your multiple attack penalty, but the penalty doesn’t
increase until after you’ve made both of them.
Sample Fighter
BULLY

Using a two-handed weapon, you push your foes about
the battlefield and deal grievous wounds. You excel at
taking down the biggest enemy standing in your way.

Attributes

Prioritizing Strength and Constitution. Wisdom helps
with survivability and increases your damage; Dexterity
enables extra maneuverability.
Skills
Athletics, Crafting, Intimidation, Medicine
Starting Feat

Vicious Swing

Higher-Level Feats

Slam Down (4th), Furious Focus (6th), Positioning Assault
(8th), Brutal Finish (12th), Savage Critical (18th)
SWIPE [two-actions] FEAT 4
FIGHTER FLOURISH
You make a wide, arcing swing. Make a melee Strike and
compare the attack roll result to the AC of up to two foes,
each of whom must be within your melee reach and adjacent
to each other. Roll damage only once and apply it to each
creature you hit. A Swipe counts as two attacks for your
multiple attack penalty.
If you’re using a weapon with the sweep trait, its modifier
applies to all your Swipe attacks.
TWIN PARRY [one-action] FEAT 4
FIGHTER
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, one in
each hand.
You use your two weapons to parry attacks. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to AC until the start of your next turn, or
a +2 circumstance bonus if either weapon has the parry trait.
You lose this circumstance bonus if you no longer meet this
feat’s requirement.
6TH LEVEL
ADVANCED WEAPON TRAINING FEAT 6
FIGHTER
You’ve studied the art of wielding an advanced weapon.
Choose a weapon group. You gain proficiency with all advanced
weapons in that group as if they were martial weapons of their
weapon group.
ADVANTAGEOUS ASSAULT [one-action] FEAT 6
FIGHTER PRESS
After compromising your enemy’s movement, you deliver a
more deadly blow. Make a Strike against a creature that is
grabbed, prone, or restrained. You gain a circumstance bonus
to damage on this Strike equal to the number of weapon
damage dice, or that number + 2 if you’re wielding the weapon
in two hands. The Strike gains the following failure effect.
Failure You deal damage to the target equal to the number of
weapon damage dice, or that number + 2 if you’re wielding
the weapon in two hands. This damage has the same
damage type as the weapon.
DAZING BLOW [one-action] FEAT 6
FIGHTER PRESS
Requirements You have a creature grabbed.
You pummel a held foe, hoping to stagger them. Make a melee
Strike against a creature you have grabbed. The weapon
damage from this Strike is bludgeoning damage. If the
Strike hits, the creature must attempt a Fortitude
save against your class DC; this is an
incapacitation effect.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is stunned 1.

Failure The creature is stunned 2.
Critical Failure The creature is stunned 3.
DISARMING STANCE [one-action] FEAT 6
FIGHTER STANCE
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
Requirements You are wielding a single one-handed melee
weapon and hold nothing else in your hands.
You adopt a fencing stance that improves your control over your
weapon. While you are in this stance, you gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to Athletics checks to Disarm and a +2 circumstance
bonus to your Reflex DC when defending against checks to
Disarm you. In addition, you can attempt to Disarm creatures up
to two sizes larger than you.
FURIOUS FOCUS FEAT 6
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Vicious Swing
You’ve learned to maintain your balance even when swinging
furiously. When you make a Vicious Swing with a melee weapon
you’re wielding in two hands, it counts as one attack toward
your multiple attack penalty instead of two.
GUARDIAN’S DEFLECTION [reaction] FEAT 6
FIGHTER
Trigger An ally within your melee reach is hit by an attack, you
can see the attacker, and the ally gaining a +2 circumstance
bonus to AC would turn the critical hit into a hit or the hit
into a miss.
Requirements You are wielding a single one-handed melee
weapon and hold nothing else in your hands.
You use your weapon to deflect the attack against your ally,
granting a +2 circumstance bonus to their Armor Class against
the triggering attack. This turns the triggering critical hit into a
hit, or the triggering hit into a miss.
REFLEXIVE SHIELD FEAT 6
FIGHTER
You can use your shield to fend off explosions and the
like. When you Raise your Shield, you gain your shield’s
circumstance bonus to Reflex saves.
Special If you have the Shield Block reaction, damage you take
as a result of a Reflex save can trigger that reaction, even if
the damage isn’t physical damage.
REVEALING STAB [two-actions] FEAT 6
FIGHTER
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon that can deal
piercing damage.
You drive your piercing weapon into an imperceptible foe,
revealing its location to your allies. Make a Strike with a
piercing melee weapon. If the target is concealed, you don’t
need to attempt a flat check to target it, and if it’s hidden, the
DC of the flat check to target it is 5. If you hit and deal damage,
you can drive the weapon you attacked with into the target (if
it’s corporeal), revealing its current position. You Release the
weapon, and it becomes lodged in the target. If the target is
concealed, no flat check is needed to target it, and if it’s hidden,
the DC of the flat check to target it is 5, and the creature can’t

become undetected. These benefits apply only for observers
who can see your weapon stuck in the target. If the target is
invisible, the weapon remains visible while lodged in it.
This benefit lasts until the weapon is removed from the
creature. An adjacent creature or the target can remove the
weapon with two Interact actions.
RICOCHET STANCE [one-action] FEAT 6
FIGHTER STANCE
You adopt a stance to rebound your thrown weapons toward you.
While you are in this stance, any thrown weapons you use as
part of a ranged Strike to deal bludgeoning or slashing damage
immediately return to your hand, enabling you to use them for
additional Strikes. You must be within the weapon’s listed range
increment and have a hand free to catch the weapon. If you make
a ranged Strike with a thrown weapon outside of its listed range
increment, it instead flies back toward you a number of feet equal
to its listed range increment and then falls to the ground.
SHATTER DEFENSES [one-action] FEAT 6
FIGHTER PRESS
Requirements A frightened creature is in your melee reach.
Your offense exploits your enemy’s fear. Make a melee Strike
against a frightened creature. If you hit and deal damage, the
target becomes off-guard until its frightened condition ends. If
the target was already off-guard to you when you damaged it
with this Strike, it can’t reduce its frightened value below 1 until
the start of your next turn.
SHIELD WARDEN FEAT 6
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Shield Block
When you have a shield raised, you can use your Shield Block
reaction when an attack is made against an ally adjacent to
you. If you do, the shield prevents that ally from taking damage
instead of preventing you from taking damage, following the
normal rules for Shield Block.
TRIPLE SHOT FEAT 6
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Double Shot
You can quickly fire multiple shots with greater control. When
you use Double Shot, you can make the attacks against the
same target. You can add an additional action to Double Shot to
make three ranged Strikes instead of two. If you do, the penalty
is –4. All attacks count toward your multiple attack penalty, but
the penalty doesn’t increase until after you’ve made all of them.
8TH LEVEL
BLIND-FIGHT FEAT 8
FIGHTER
Prerequisites master in Perception
Your battle instincts make you more aware of concealed and
invisible opponents. You don’t need to succeed at a flat check
to target concealed creatures. You’re not off-guard to creatures
that are hidden from you (unless you’re off-guard to them for
reasons other than the hidden condition), and you need only a
successful DC 5 flat check to target a hidden creature.
While you’re adjacent to an undetected creature of your
level or lower, it is instead only hidden from you.
Sample Fighter
DUELIST

With one hand free and a blade in the others, you are
adept at foiling your opponents by way of misdirection,
disarming strikes, and by always being ready for their
clumsy attacks.

Attributes

Prioritize Strength. Dexterity and Wisdom help with
survivability and versatility, and Constitution grants
some extra toughness.
Skills
Acrobatics, Athletics, Deception, Medicine
Starting Feat

Snagging Strike

Higher-Level Feats

Dueling Parry (2nd), Disarming Stance (6th), Disarming
Twist (10th), Dueling Dance (12th), Opening Stance (14th),
Master of Many Styles (16th)
DISORIENTING OPENING FEAT 8
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Reactive Strike
You use your foes’ openings to expose even greater weaknesses.
When you hit a creature as part of a Reactive Strike, that
creature becomes off-guard until the start of your next turn.
DUELING RIPOSTE [reaction] FEAT 8
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Dueling Parry
Trigger A creature within your reach critically fails a Strike
against you.
Requirements You are benefiting from Dueling Parry.
You elegantly counterattack against your flailing enemy.
Make a melee Strike against or attempt to Disarm the
triggering creature.
FELLING STRIKE [two-actions] FEAT 8
FIGHTER
Your attack can ground an airborne foe. Make a Strike. If it hits
and deals damage to a flying target, the target falls up to 120
feet. The fall is gradual enough that if it causes the target to hit
the ground, the target takes no damage from the fall.
If the attack is a critical hit, the target can’t Fly, Leap,
levitate, or otherwise leave the ground until the end of your
next turn.
INCREDIBLE AIM [two-actions] FEAT 8
CONCENTRATE FIGHTER
By spending a moment to focus, you can ensure your attack
strikes true. Make a ranged weapon Strike. On this Strike, you
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the attack roll and ignore the
target’s concealed condition.
MOBILE SHOT STANCE [one-action] FEAT 8
FIGHTER STANCE
Your shots become nimble and deadly. While you’re in this
stance, your ranged Strikes don’t trigger Reactive Strike or
other reactions that are triggered by a ranged attack.
Special If you have Reactive Strike, you can use it with a
loaded ranged weapon you’re wielding. The triggering
creature must be within 5 feet of you for you to do so.
POSITIONING ASSAULT [two-actions] FEAT 8
FIGHTER FLOURISH
Requirements You are wielding a two-handed melee weapon
and your target is within your reach.
With punishing blows, you force your opponent into position.
Make a Strike with the required weapon. If you hit, you
Reposition the target 5 feet.
QUICK SHIELD BLOCK FEAT 8
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Shield Block
You can bring your shield into place with hardly a thought. At
the start of each of your turns, you gain an additional reaction
that you can use only to Shield Block.
RESOUNDING BRAVERY FEAT 8
FIGHTER
Prerequisites bravery
Even your fears serve as fuel for your fighting spirit. When
you critically succeed at a Will save against a foe’s ability, you
gain a +1 status bonus to saves and a number of temporary Hit
Points equal to half your level for 1 minute. These benefits are
doubled if you critically succeed against a fear effect.
SUDDEN LEAP [two-actions] FEAT 8
FIGHTER
You make an impressive leap and swing while you soar. Make
a Leap, High Jump, or Long Jump and attempt one melee Strike
at any point during your jump. Immediately after the Strike,
you fall to the ground if you’re in the air, even if you haven’t
reached the maximum distance of your jump. If the distance
you fall is no more than the height of your jump, you take no
damage and land upright.
When attempting a High Jump or Long Jump during a
Sudden Leap, determine the DC using the Long Jump DCs, and
increase your maximum distance to double your Speed.
Special If you have Felling Strike, you can use Felling Strike
instead of a normal Strike. This doesn’t change the number
of actions Sudden Leap takes.
10TH LEVEL
AGILE GRACE FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Your graceful moves with agile weapons are beyond compare.
Your multiple attack penalty with agile weapons and agile
unarmed attacks becomes –3 for your second attack and –6
for subsequent attacks (rather than –4 and –8).
CERTAIN STRIKE [one-action] FEAT 10
FIGHTER PRESS
Even when you don’t hit squarely, you can still score a
glancing blow. Make a melee Strike. It gains the following
failure effect.
Failure Your attack deals any damage it would have dealt
on a hit, excluding all damage dice. (This removes damage
dice from weapon runes, spells, and special abilities, in
addition to weapon damage dice.)
CRASHING SLAM FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Slam Down
You can dash your foe to the ground with a single blow. When
you use Slam Down, instead of making a Strike followed by

a Trip, you can attempt a single Strike. If you do and your
Strike hits, instead of rolling a check for your Trip attempt,
you automatically apply the critical success effect of a Trip.
If you used a two-handed melee weapon for the Strike, you
can use the weapon’s damage die size instead of the regular
die size for the damage from a critical Trip.
CUT FROM THE AIR [reaction] FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Trigger You are the target of a physical ranged Strike.
Requirements You’re aware of the attack, not off-guard
against it, and either have a hand free or are wielding a
melee weapon.
You can knock aside ranged attacks. You gain a +4 circumstance
bonus to AC against the triggering attack. If the attack misses,
you knocked or cut it out of the air.
DEBILITATING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 10
FIGHTER FLOURISH
Aiming for a weak point, you impede your foe with a precise
shot. Make a ranged weapon Strike. If it hits and deals damage,
the target is slowed 1 until the end of its next turn.
DISARMING TWIST [one-action] FEAT 10
FIGHTER PRESS
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
Requirements You are wielding a single one-handed melee
weapon and hold nothing else in your hands.
After your initial attack redirects your foe’s defenses, your
follow-up wrests their weapon from their grasp. Make a melee
Strike with a one-handed melee weapon. In addition to its
other effects, this Strike gains the success and critical success
effects of the Disarm action. The Strike also has the following
failure effect.
Failure The target is off-guard until the end of your current turn.
Special If you’re in Disarming Stance, you gain a +1
circumstance bonus to the attack roll.
DISRUPTIVE STANCE [one-action] FEAT 10
FIGHTER STANCE
The slightest distraction can provoke your wrath, and you’re
prepared to foil enemies’ actions. As long as you are in this
stance, you can use Reactive Strike when a creature within
your reach uses a concentrate action, in addition to manipulate
and move actions. Furthermore, you disrupt a triggering
concentrate or manipulate action if your Strike hits (not only
if it’s a critical hit).
FEARSOME BRUTE FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Fear makes your foes weak and more vulnerable to your
attacks. You gain a circumstance bonus to damage rolls for
Strikes against frightened creatures. The bonus is equal to
double the target’s frightened value.
If you’re a master in Intimidation, increase the bonus to
triple the target’s frightened value.
Sample Fighter
ARCHER

You take out your opponents from a distance with ranged
weapons, and you excel at dispatching flying or other
hard-to-reach enemies.
Attributes

Prioritize Dexterity. Constitution and Wisdom helps
with survivability, and Strength adds damage with
propulsive weapons.
Skills
Acrobatics, Medicine, Stealth, Thievery
Starting Feat

Point Blank Stance

Higher-Level Feats

Double Shot (4th), Triple Shot (6th), Debilitating Shot
(10th), Opening Stance (14th), Multishot Stance (16th),
Impossible Volley (18th)
FLINGING CHARGE [two-actions] FEAT 10
FIGHTER FLOURISH
You throw a weapon to distract your opponent as you close the
gap to begin your assault. You Stride twice; at any point during
this movement, you can make a ranged Strike with a thrown
weapon. If the Strike hits, the target is off-guard against the
next melee attack that you attempt against it before the end
of your current turn.
MIRROR SHIELD [reaction] FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Trigger An opponent casting a spell that targets you critically
fails a spell attack roll against your AC.
Requirements You have a shield raised.
You reflect the spell back against its caster. Make a ranged
attack against the attacker using your highest proficiency with
a ranged weapon. If you can cast spells, you can choose to
make a spell attack roll instead. If you succeed, your opponent
takes the effects of a successful spell attack roll for their own
spell (or the effects of a critical success if your attack roll was
a critical success).
OVERPOWERING CHARGE FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Barreling Charge
You trample foes as you charge past. When you use
Barreling Charge and successfully move through a
creature’s space, that creature takes bludgeoning damage
equal to your Strength modifier. On a critical success, the
creature takes double damage and is off-guard until the end
of your next turn.
TACTICAL REFLEXES FEAT 10
FIGHTER
You are particularly swift at punishing foes who leave you
openings. At the start of each of your turns when you regain
your actions, you gain an additional reaction that can be used
only to make a Reactive Strike.
TWIN RIPOSTE [reaction] FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Trigger A creature within your reach critically fails to Strike you.
Requirements You are benefiting from Twin Parry.
A clever parry with one weapon leaves your opponent open
to an attack with the other weapon. Make a melee Strike or
Disarm action against the triggering opponent.
12TH LEVEL
BRUTAL FINISH [one-action] FEAT 12
FIGHTER PRESS
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon in two hands.
Your final blow can make an impact even if it rebounds off
a foe’s defenses. Make a Strike with a melee weapon you’re
wielding in two hands. After the Strike, your turn ends.
The Strike deals one additional weapon damage die, or two
additional weapon damage dice if you’re at least 18th level.
The Strike also gains the following failure effect.
Failure You deal damage equal to one weapon damage die of
the required weapon. Increase this to two dice if you’re at
least 18th level.
DASHING STRIKE [one-action] FEAT 12
FIGHTER PRESS
Requirements You are adjacent to an enemy.
Springing away from one foe, you Strike at another. Stride up
to your Speed, but you must end that movement within melee
reach of a different enemy. At the end of your movement,
make a melee Strike against an enemy now within reach. You
can use Dashing Strike while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or
Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding
movement type.
DUELING DANCE [one-action] FEAT 12
FIGHTER STANCE
Prerequisites Dueling Parry
Requirements You are wielding a single one-handed melee
weapon and hold nothing else in your hands.
Using a free hand as pivot and balance, you both attack and
defend with your weapon. While you are in this stance, you
constantly have the benefits of Dueling Parry.
FLINGING SHOVE FEAT 12
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Aggressive Block or Brutish Shove
Whether you’re shoving opponents with a shield or a large
weapon, you’ve learned to push them even further. Increase
the distance you Shove your opponent with Aggressive
Block or Brutish Shove to 10 feet on a success or 20 feet
on a critical success. When you use Aggressive Block, you
can choose whether the target is off-guard or Shoved. When
you make a Brutish Shove, you also Shove the target 5 feet
on a failure.
IMPROVED DUELING RIPOSTE FEAT 12
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Dueling Riposte
Your weapon whirls and darts, striking foes whenever the
slightest opening or moment of weakness presents itself.
You can use Dueling Riposte even if you aren’t benefiting
from Dueling Parry. At the start of each of your turns, you
gain an additional reaction that you can use only to make a
Dueling Riposte.
INCREDIBLE RICOCHET [one-action] FEAT 12
CONCENTRATE FIGHTER PRESS
Prerequisites Incredible Aim
After your first shot singles out your opponent’s position,
you direct another that ricochets around obstacles and
strikes unerringly. Make a ranged weapon Strike against a
creature you previously attacked this turn. You ignore the
target’s concealed condition and all cover.

LUNGING STANCE [one-action] FEAT 12
FIGHTER STANCE
Prerequisites Lunge, Reactive Strike
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon.
Your body coiled to strike, you can lash out at distant enemies.
While you are in this stance, you can use Reactive Strike
against a creature that is outside your reach but within the
reach you would have with a Lunge. If you do, you increase
your range with the Strike by 5 feet.
PARAGON’S GUARD [one-action] FEAT 12
FIGHTER STANCE
Requirements You are wielding a shield.
Once you’ve had a moment to set your stance, you always
have your shield ready without a thought. While you are in
this stance, you constantly have your shield raised as if you’d
used the Raise a Shield action.
14TH LEVEL
DESPERATE FINISHER [reaction] FEAT 14
FIGHTER PRESS
Trigger You complete the last action on your turn, and your
turn has not ended yet.
You throw everything you have into one last, reckless press.
Use a single action that you know with the press trait. You
forgo the ability to use reactions until the start of your
next turn. This press uses your multiple attack penalty, as
normal.
DETERMINATION [one-action] FEAT 14
CONCENTRATE FIGHTER
Frequency once per day
Your training allows you to shrug off your foes’ spells
and conditions when the need is dire. Choose a single
nonpermanent condition, spell, or magical effect that is
affecting you. If you chose a condition, its effect on you
ends. If you chose a spell or other magical effect, attempt
to counteract the spell (your counteract rank is equal to half
your level, rounded up, and you attempt a Will save as your
counteract check).
This doesn’t remove any Hit Point damage you already
took from the spell or condition, and it removes the effect
from only you, not from other creatures or the environment
around you. It can’t remove an ongoing affliction or prevent
such an affliction from inflicting conditions on you later. It
can’t remove conditions occurring automatically due to your
situation or positioning (such as prone or flanked).
GUIDING FINISH [one-action] FEAT 14
FIGHTER PRESS
Requirements You are wielding a single one-handed melee
weapon and hold nothing else in your hands.
Using your weapon as a lever, you force your opponent to

end up right where you want them. Make a Strike with a one-
handed melee weapon. If the Strike hits, you can Reposition
the target up to 10 feet. You can move the target through
your space during this movement. Your Strike gains the
following failure effect.
Failure You can force the creature to move as you would on a
success, but you can move the target only 5 feet.
GUIDING RIPOSTE FEAT 14
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Dueling Riposte
By shifting your weight and angling your weapon, you guide
your opponent to a more favorable position. When you use
Dueling Riposte to Strike and you hit, you can Reposition up
to 10 feet.
IMPROVED TWIN RIPOSTE FEAT 14
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Twin Riposte
Your weapons are a blur, blocking and biting at your foes.
You can use Twin Riposte even if you aren’t benefiting
from Twin Parry. At the start of each of your turns, you
gain an additional reaction that you can use only to make a
Twin Riposte.
OPENING STANCE [free-action] FEAT 14
FIGHTER
Trigger You roll initiative.
At the first sign of trouble, often before you consciously
realize the danger, you drop into a stance with a mere
thought. Use an action that has the stance trait.
TWO-WEAPON FLURRY [one-action] FEAT 14
FIGHTER FLOURISH PRESS
Requirements You are wielding two weapons, each in a
different hand.
Using the momentum of your prior attack, you lash out with
both your weapons in a sudden frenzy. Strike twice, once
with each weapon.
WHIRLWIND STRIKE [three-actions] FEAT 14
FIGHTER FLOURISH
You lash out in a blur of motion, attacking all nearby
adversaries. Make a melee Strike against each enemy within
your melee reach. Each attack counts toward your multiple
attack penalty, but you do not increase your penalty until
you have made all your attacks.
16TH LEVEL
GRACEFUL POISE [one-action] FEAT 16
FIGHTER STANCE
Prerequisites Double Slice
With the right positioning, your off-hand weapon can strike
like a scorpion’s stinger. While you are in this stance, if you
make your second Strike from Double Slice with an agile
weapon, Double Slice counts as one attack when calculating
your multiple attack penalty.

IMPROVED REFLEXIVE SHIELD FEAT 16
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Reflexive Shield
Your shield can help save nearby allies. When you use Shield
Block against damage resulting from a Reflex save, adjacent
allies who would take damage due to Reflex saves against the
same effect also benefit from the damage reduction.
MASTER OF MANY STYLES [free-action] FEAT 16
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Opening Stance
Trigger Your turn begins.
You move fluidly between stances, using your mastery of
combat to always adopt the best tactics. You use an action
with the stance trait.
MULTISHOT STANCE [one-action] FEAT 16
FIGHTER STANCE
Prerequisites Double Shot
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with reload 0.
You lock yourself in a stable position so you can fire swiftly
and accurately. While you are in this stance, your penalty for
Double Shot is reduced to –1. If you move from your position,
this stance ends.
Special If you have Triple Shot, when you use Double Shot to
make three Strikes, the penalty is –2.
OVERWHELMING BLOW [three-actions] FEAT 16
FIGHTER
You throw your weight into a powerful attack that leaves you
vulnerable. Make a melee Strike. This counts as three attacks
when calculating your multiple attack penalty. If this Strike hits,
you get a critical hit. If you roll a critical hit, your weapon or
unarmed attack also gains the deadly d12 trait (this replaces any
deadly trait it already has). Whether or not you hit, you become
stunned 1 and are off-guard until the start of your next turn.
TWINNED DEFENSE [one-action] FEAT 16
FIGHTER STANCE
Prerequisites Twin Parry
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, one in
each hand.
You’re always ready to use your off-hand weapon to interfere
with attacks against you. While you are in this stance, you
constantly gain the benefits of the Twin Parry action.
18TH LEVEL
IMPOSSIBLE VOLLEY [three-actions] FEAT 18
FIGHTER FLOURISH
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with the
volley trait and reload 0.
You fire a volley at all foes in an area. Make one Strike with a
–2 penalty against each enemy within a 10-foot-radius burst
centered at or beyond your weapon’s volley range. Roll the
damage only once for all targets.
Each attack counts toward your multiple attack penalty,
but do not increase your penalty until you have made all
your attacks.
SAVAGE CRITICAL FEAT 18
FIGHTER
The wounds you inflict are grievous. When you Strike with
a weapon or unarmed attack for which you have legendary
proficiency, you critically succeed if you roll a 19 on the die
as long as that result would be a success. This has no effect
on a 19 if the result would be a failure.
SMASH FROM THE AIR FEAT 18
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Cut From the Air
Your expertise enables you to knock away spells. You can use
Cut from the Air against ranged spell attacks.
20TH LEVEL
BOUNDLESS REPRISALS FEAT 20
FIGHTER
With a sixth sense for the flow of combat, you can quickly
react to any situation as required. At the start of each
enemy’s turn, you gain a reaction you can use only during
that turn for any reaction from a fighter feat or class feature.

ULTIMATE FLEXIBILITY FEAT 20
FIGHTER
Prerequisites improved flexibility
Your experience keeps you on your toes, helping you adopt
complex strategies on the fly and face the most dangerous
challenges. When you gain a fighter feat using combat
flexibility, you gain three fighter feats instead of two. While
the first feat must still be 8th level or lower, the second
feat can be up to 14th level, and the third feat can be up to
18th level.
You can use the first feat to meet the prerequisites of
the second or third feats and the second feat to meet the
prerequisites of the third feat. You must meet all three feats’
other prerequisites normally.
In addition, you can adapt to the battlefield’s challenges
by spending 1 hour to train. If you do, you can reselect the
feats chosen with combat flexibility as if you had made your
daily preparations. You can’t trade out limited-use abilities
that you’ve already used, such as Determination.
WEAPON SUPREMACY FEAT 20
FIGHTER
Your skill with weapons bends the laws of reality, allowing
you to continuously attack with speed that would normally
require magical assistance. You’re permanently quickened.
You can use your extra action only to Strike.
RANGER
Some rangers believe civilization wears down the soul, but still needs to be
protected from wild creatures. Others say nature needs to be protected from the
greedy, who wish to tame its beauty and plunder its treasures. You could champion
either goal, or both. You might be a scout, tracker, or hunter of fugitives or beasts,
haunting the edge of civilization or exploring the wilds. You know how to live off the land
and are skilled at spotting and taking down both opportune prey and hated enemies.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Strength or Dexterity
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to your choice
of Strength or Dexterity.
HIT POINTS
10 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Expert in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Expert in Fortitude
Expert in Reflex
Trained in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Nature
Trained in Survival
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 4 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in martial weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in medium armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in ranger class DC
During combat encounters...
You can single out particular foes to hunt, making you better at defeating
them. You target and brutalize your chosen foe with either a bow or melee
weapons, while supporting your allies with your skills.
During social encounters...
When you speak, it’s with the voice of practical experience, especially involving
wilderness exploration.
While exploring...
You guide your allies through the wilderness or follow tracks. You keep an eye
out for trouble, constantly alert for danger even when it’s not overt.
In downtime...
You craft weapons and train animals in preparation for your next venture.
If you prefer to get outside, you might go on hunts or scout nearby areas to
better understand your environment.
You might...
• Respect the raw power of nature and understand how to make the best of
its bounty.
• Enjoy the thrill of the hunt.
• Scout out ahead of the party, reconnoitering dangers before combat
begins.
Others probably...
• Call upon you to protect them from the wilds or the encroachment of
civilization.
• Expect you to be a quiet or taciturn loner.
• Think there is something dangerous and wild about you.
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a ranger. Abilities gained at higher levels list the level
at which you gain them next to the features’ names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you have the benefits
of your selected ancestry and background. These are described in Chapter 2.
RANGER ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1 Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, hunt prey, hunter’s edge,
ranger feat
2 Ranger feat, skill feat
3 General feat, will expertise, skill increase
4 Ranger feat, skill feat
5 Attribute boosts, ancestry feat, ranger weapon
expertise, skill increase, trackless journey
6 Ranger feat, skill feat
7 General feat, natural reflexes, skill increase,
perception mastery, weapon specialization
8 Ranger feat, skill feat
9 Ancestry feat, nature’s edge, ranger expertise,
skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, ranger feat, skill feat
11 General feat, warden’s endurance, medium armor
expertise, skill increase, unimpeded journey
12 Ranger feat, skill feat
13 Ancestry feat, skill increase, martial weapon
mastery
14 Ranger feat, skill feat
15 Attribute boosts, general feat, greater natural
reflexes, greater weapon specialization,
perception legend, skill increase
16 Ranger feat, skill feat
17 Ancestry feat, masterful hunter, skill increase
18 Ranger feat, skill feat
19 General feat, medium armor mastery, skill
increase, swift prey
20 Attribute boosts, ranger feat, skill feat
Attribute Boosts
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have four free boosts to different attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four
free boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute
modifier is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to
increase it; you get a partial boost, and must boost that
attribute again at a later level to increase it by 1.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These are noted at the start
of this class.
Hunt Prey
When you focus your attention on a single foe, you become
unstoppable in your pursuit. You gain the Hunt Prey action.
HUNT PREY [one-action]
CONCENTRATE RANGER
You designate a single creature as your prey and focus your
attacks against that creature. You must be able to see or hear
the prey, or you must be tracking the prey during exploration.

You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks
when you Seek your prey and a +2 circumstance bonus to
Survival checks when you Track your prey. You also ignore the
penalty for making ranged attacks within your second range
increment against the prey you’re hunting.
You can have only one creature designated as your prey
at a time. If you use Hunt Prey against a creature when you
already have a creature designated, the prior creature loses
the designation and the new prey gains the designation. Your
designation lasts until your next daily preparations.
Hunter’s Edge
You have trained to become a skilled hunter and tracker,
gaining an extra benefit when you Hunt Prey depending
on the focus of your training. Choose a hunter’s edge.
Flurry: You have trained to unleash a devastating flurry
of attacks upon your prey. Your multiple attack penalty
for attacks against your hunted prey is –3 (–2 with an
agile weapon) on your second attack of the turn instead
of –5, and –6 (–4 with an agile weapon) on your third or
subsequent attack of the turn, instead of –10.
Outwit: You are talented at outwitting your prey. You
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to AC against your prey’s
attacks and a +2 circumstance bonus to Deception checks,
Intimidation checks, Stealth checks, and any checks to
Recall Knowledge about the prey.
Precision: You have trained to aim for your prey’s weak
points. The first time you hit your hunted prey in a round,
you also deal 1d8 additional precision damage. (Precision
damage increases the damage you already deal, using the
same type, but is ineffective against creatures that lack vital
organs or weak points.) At 11th level, the extra damage
increases to 2d8 precision damage, and at 19th level, the
extra damage increases to 3d8 precision damage.
Ranger Feats
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain a
ranger class feat. These begin on page 156.
Skill Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 4 and have the skill
trait. You must be trained or better in the corresponding
skill to select a skill feat.
General Feats 3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
Skill Increases 3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
skill increase. You can use this increase to either become
trained in one skill you’re untrained in or become an
expert in one skill in which you’re already trained.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a
skill in which you’re already a master.
Will Expertise 3rd
Your mental defenses grow stronger. Your proficiency
rank for Will saves increases to expert.
Ancestry Feats 5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Ranger Weapon Expertise 5th
You gain every advantage from your weapons. Your
proficiency rank for martial weapons, simple weapons,
and unarmed attacks increases to expert. You gain access
to the critical specialization effects of all such weapons
and unarmed attacks when attacking your hunted prey.
Trackless Journey 5th
When you move through natural terrains, you are hard
to track. You always gain the benefits of the Cover Tracks
action in such terrains, without moving at half your Speed.
Natural Reflexes 7th
You’ve honed your reflexes dodging falling trees and
pounding hail. Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves
increases to master. When you roll a success on a Reflex
save, you get a critical success instead.
Perception Mastery 7th
You have highly developed acuity and attention to detail.
Your proficiency rank for Perception increases to master.
Weapon Specialization 7th
You inflict greater injuries with the weapons you know
best. You deal 2 additional damage with weapons
and unarmed attacks in which you’re an expert. This
damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and 4 if you’re
legendary.
Nature’s Edge 9th
You always find the weak points in your foes’ defenses

when they’re on unfavorable terrain. Enemies are off-
guard to you if they’re in difficult terrain.

Ranger Expertise 9th
You’ve gained techniques that improve your cunning and
skill. Your proficiency rank for your ranger DC increases
to expert. If you have warden spells, your proficiency
rank for spell attacks and spell DCs increases to expert.
Warden’s Endurance 11th
You shake off a grizzly’s grab or a poison’s ill effects
with equal ease. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude

saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a
Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead.
Medium Armor Expertise 11th
You’ve learned to defend yourself better against attacks.
Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor,
and unarmored defense increase to expert.
Unimpeded Journey 11th
You move quickly through obstacles, whether they’re
tumbled stone or tangled undergrowth. You can ignore
the effects of difficult terrain. As normal for ignoring
difficult terrain, this also lets you treat the hindrances of
greater difficult terrain as those of difficult terrain.
Martial Weapon Mastery 13th
You fully understand the intricacies of weapons. Your
proficiency ranks for unarmed attacks, simple weapons,
and martial weapons increase to master.
Greater Natural Reflexes 15th
You avoid explosions with reflexes a cat would envy.
Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to
legendary. When you roll a critical failure on a Reflex
save, you get a failure instead. When you fail a Reflex
save against an effect that deals damage, you halve the
damage you take.
Greater Weapon Specialization 15th
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
Perception Legend 15th
You notice the almost imperceptible. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to legendary.
Masterful Hunter 17th
You have honed your abilities as a hunter to incredible
levels. Your proficiency rank for your ranger class DC
increases to master. If you have warden spells, your
proficiency rank for spell attacks and spell DCs increases
to master. When using a ranged weapon that you have
master proficiency in, you can ignore the penalty if

attacking your hunted prey within the weapon’s second
and third range increments.
If you have master proficiency in Perception, you gain
a +4 circumstance bonus to Perception checks when you
Seek your prey, and if you have master proficiency in
Survival, you gain a +4 circumstance bonus to Survival
checks when you Track your prey.
You also gain an additional benefit depending on your
hunter’s edge.
Flurry: You can blend your weapon mastery with
skillful targeting to make a series of precise attacks. If you
have master proficiency with your weapon, your multiple
attack penalty for attacks against your hunted prey is –2
(–1 with an agile weapon) on your second attack of the
turn, and –4 (–2 with an agile weapon) on your third and
subsequent attacks of the turn.
Outwit: Your mastery of skills allows you to overwhelm
your prey. If you have master proficiency in Deception,
Intimidation, Stealth, or the skill you use to Recall
Knowledge about your prey, increase the circumstance
bonus against the prey with that skill from +2 to +4. If
you have master proficiency with your armor, increase the
circumstance bonus to AC against the prey from +1 to +2.
Precision: Your weapon mastery allows you to hit
your prey’s vital areas multiple times. The second time
in a round you hit your hunted prey, you also deal 1d8
precision damage. At 19th level, your second hit in a
round against your hunted prey deals 2d8 precision
damage, and your third hit in a round against your
hunted prey deals 1d8 precision damage.
Medium Armor Mastery 19th
Your skill with light and medium armor improves,
increasing your ability to avoid blows. Your
proficiency ranks for light and medium armor, as
well as for unarmed defense, increase to master.
Swift Prey 19th
You size up your prey with a glance. You can
use Hunt Prey as a free action if it’s your first
action of your turn.
KEY TERMS

You’ll see these key terms in many ranger class features.
Flourish: Actions with the flourish trait are special
techniques that require too much exertion for you to
perform frequently. You can use only one action with
the flourish trait per round.
Press: Actions with this trait allow you to follow up
earlier attacks. An action with the press trait can be used
only if you are currently affected by a multiple attack
penalty. You can’t use a press action when it’s not your
turn, even if you use the Ready activity.
Some actions with the press trait also grant an effect
on a failure. The effects that are added on a failure don’t
apply on a critical failure. If your press action succeeds,
you can choose to apply the failure effect instead. (For
example, you may wish to do this when an attack deals
no damage due to resistance.)
Warden Spells: Your relationship with the world
around you extends from the physical to the magical.
Certain feats grant you warden spells, which are a type
of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus spell.
When you gain your first warden spell, you also gain a
focus pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool
during your daily preparations, and you regain 1 Focus
Point by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity
to commune with nature.
Your warden spells are primal spells. When you first
gain a warden spell, you become trained in spell attacks
and spell DCs. Your spellcasting attribute is Wisdom.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up. Taking feats can give you more focus
spells and increase the size of your focus pool, though
your focus pool can never hold more than 3 Focus Points.
The full rules for focus spells appear on page 298.
Ranger Feats
At every level that you gain a ranger feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before taking the feat.
1ST LEVEL
ANIMAL COMPANION FEAT 1
RANGER
You gain the service of a young animal companion
that travels with you and obeys simple commands.
See Animal Companions on page 206. When you
Hunt Prey, your animal companion gains the action’s benefits
and your hunter’s edge benefit if you have one.
CROSSBOW ACE [one-action] FEAT 1
RANGER
Requirements You are wielding a crossbow with reload 1
or higher.
Your deep understanding of the crossbow allows you to reload
efficiently while moving yourself out of the line of return fire.
Either Create a Diversion or Take Cover, then Interact to reload.
As normal, you must meet the requirements to Take Cover; you
must be prone, benefiting from cover, or near a feature that
allows you to Take Cover.
HUNTED SHOT [one-action] FEAT 1
FLOURISH RANGER
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with reload 0.
You take two quick shots against the one you hunt. Make two
Strikes against your prey with the required weapon. If both
hit the same creature, combine their damage for the purpose
of resistances and weaknesses. Apply your multiple attack
penalty to each Strike normally.
INITIATE WARDEN FEAT 1
RANGER
You’ve trained with one of the ranger sects known as wardens,
who practice a specialized type of primal magic. You gain your
choice of one warden spell from the initial warden spells on
page 383 (or another you have access to).

Special You can take this feat multiple times, choosing a
different initial warden spell each time.
MONSTER HUNTER FEAT 1
RANGER
You quickly assess your prey and apply what you know. As
part of the action used to Hunt your Prey, you can attempt
a check to Recall Knowledge about your prey. When you
critically succeed at identifying your hunted prey with Recall
Knowledge, you note a weakness in the creature’s defenses in
addition to any other benefits. You and allies you tell gain a +1
circumstance bonus to your next attack roll against that prey.
You can give bonuses from Monster Hunter only once per day
against a particular creature.
TWIN TAKEDOWN [one-action] FEAT 1
FLOURISH RANGER
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, each in a
different hand.
You swiftly attack your hunted prey with each of your
weapons, potentially combining their damage into a single
devastating attack. Make two Strikes against your hunted
prey, one with each of the required weapons. If both hit the
same hunted prey, combine their damage for the purpose of
its resistances and weaknesses. Apply your multiple attack
penalty to each Strike normally.
RANGER FEATS BY NAME
Feat Level
Additional Recollection 6
Advanced Warden 4
Animal Companion 1
Animal Empathy 2
Blind-Fight 8
Camouflage 10
Companion’s Cry 4
Crossbow Ace 1
Deadly Aim 8
Disrupt Prey 4
Distracting Shot 12
Double Prey 12
Far Shot 4
Favored Prey 4
Favored Terrain 2
Greater Distracting Shot 16
Hazard Finder 8
Hunted Shot 1
Hunter’s Aim 2
Impossible Flurry 18
Impossible Volley 18
Improved Twin Riposte 16
Incredible Companion 10
Initiate Warden 1
Legendary Monster Hunter 16
Legendary Shot 20
Manifold Edge 18
Master Monster Hunter 10
Masterful Companion 18
Masterful Warden 6

Mature Animal Companion 6
Monster Hunter 1
Monster Warden 2
Peerless Warden 10
Penetrating Shot 10
Perfect Shot 18
Quick Draw 2
Running Reload 4
Scout’s Warning 4
Second Sting 12
Sense the Unseen 14
Shadow Hunter 18
Shared Prey 14
Side by Side 12
Skirmish Strike 6
Snap Shot 6
Specialized Companion 16
Stealthy Companion 14
Swift Tracker 6
Terrain Master 8
To the Ends of the Earth 20
Triple Threat 20
Twin Parry 4
Twin Riposte 10
Twin Takedown 1
Ultimate Skirmisher 20
Warden’s Boon 8
Warden’s Focus 12
Warden’s Guidance 14
Warden’s Reload 16
Warden’s Step 10
2ND LEVEL
ANIMAL EMPATHY FEAT 2
RANGER
You have a connection to the creatures of the natural world
that allows you to communicate with them on a rudimentary
level. You can use Diplomacy to Make an Impression on
animals and to make very simple Requests of them. In most
cases, wild animals will give you time to make your case.
FAVORED TERRAIN FEAT 2
RANGER
You have studied a specific terrain to overcome its challenges.
Choose aquatic, arctic, desert, forest, mountain, plains, sky,
swamp, or underground as your favored terrain. When in that
terrain, you can ignore the effects of non-magical difficult
terrain. If you have the unimpeded journey class feature, you
gain a second benefit while in your favored terrain, depending
on your choice:
• Aquatic You gain a swim Speed equal to your Speed. If
you already had a swim Speed, you instead gain a +10-
foot status bonus to your swim Speed.
• Arctic You need to eat and drink only one-tenth as much

as usual, you aren’t affected by severe or extreme cold,
and you can walk across ice and snow at full Speed
without needing to Balance.
• Desert You need to eat and drink only one-tenth as
much as usual, you aren’t affected by severe or extreme
heat, and you can walk along sand at full Speed without
needing to Balance.
• Forest, Mountain, or Underground You gain a climb
Speed equal to your Speed. If you already had a climb
Speed, you instead gain a +10-foot status bonus to your
climb Speed.
• Plains You gain a +10-foot status bonus to your
land Speed.
• Sky You gain a +10-foot status bonus to your fly Speed, if
you have one.
• Swamp You can move across bogs at full Speed, even if
they are deep enough to be greater difficult terrain or to
normally require you to Swim.
HUNTER’S AIM [two-actions] FEAT 2
CONCENTRATE RANGER
When you focus on aiming, your attack becomes particularly
accurate. Make a ranged weapon Strike against your hunted
prey. On this Strike, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the
attack roll and ignore your prey’s concealed condition and any
lesser cover.
MONSTER WARDEN FEAT 2
RANGER
Prerequisites Monster Hunter
You understand how to defend yourself and others against
your prey. When you grant bonuses from Monster Hunter, you
and your allies also each gain a +1 circumstance bonus to your
next saving throw against that particular creature and to your
AC against that creature’s next attack against you.
QUICK DRAW [one-action] FEAT 2
RANGER
You draw your weapon and attack with the same motion. You
Interact to draw a weapon, then Strike with that weapon.
4TH LEVEL
ADVANCED WARDEN FEAT 4
RANGER
Prerequisites Initiate Warden
You unlock more powerful primal spells. You gain your choice
of one warden spell from the advanced warden spells on pages
383–384 (or another you have access to).
Special You can take this feat multiple times, choosing a
different advanced warden spell each time.
COMPANION’S CRY FEAT 4
RANGER
Prerequisites an animal companion
You can urge your companion to do its utmost. You can spend 2
actions to Command an Animal instead of 1 when commanding
your animal companion. If you do, your animal companion
uses an additional action.
DISRUPT PREY [reaction] FEAT 4
RANGER
Trigger Your hunted prey is within your reach, and it uses a
manipulate action, uses a move action, or leaves a square
during a move action it’s using.
Make a melee Strike against your prey. If the attack is a critical
hit, you disrupt the triggering action (page 415).
FAR SHOT FEAT 4
RANGER
Your experience in the field has taught you how to focus
your aim at a distance, increasing your accuracy. Double your
weapons’ range increments.
FAVORED PREY FEAT 4
RANGER
You have studied a specific type of wild creature and can
hunt it more easily. When you gain this feat, choose animals,
beasts, dragons, or both fungi and plants as your favored prey.

When you roll initiative and can see an enemy that belongs
to the chosen category, you can Hunt Prey as a free action,
designating that enemy.
You can use this free action even if you haven’t identified
the creature yet with Recall Knowledge. The benefit doesn’t
apply against favored enemies disguised as other creatures,
and the GM determines whether it applies against a creature
disguised as a favored prey.
RUNNING RELOAD [one-action] FEAT 4
RANGER
You can reload your weapon on the move. You Stride, Step, or
Sneak, then Interact to reload.
SCOUT’S WARNING [free-action] FEAT 4
RANGER
Trigger You are about to roll a Perception or Survival check
for initiative.
You visually or audibly warn your allies of danger, granting
them each a +1 circumstance bonus to their initiative rolls.
Depending on whether you use gestures or call out, this action
gains either the visual or the auditory trait, respectively.
TWIN PARRY [one-action] FEAT 4
RANGER
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, one in
each hand.
You can use two weapons to deflect attacks. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to AC until the start of your next turn, or
a +2 circumstance bonus if either weapon has the parry trait.
You lose this circumstance bonus if you no longer meet this
feat’s requirement.
6TH LEVEL
ADDITIONAL RECOLLECTION [free-action] FEAT 6
RANGER
Trigger You succeed or critically succeed at a check to Recall
Knowledge on your hunted prey.
You scan the battlefield quickly, remembering critical details
about multiple opponents you face. You immediately attempt
a check to Recall Knowledge about a different creature you
can perceive.
MASTERFUL WARDEN FEAT 6
RANGER
Prerequisites Initiate Warden
Your mastery of warden magic increases. You gain your
choice of one warden spell from the master warden spells on
page 384 (or another you have access to).
Special You can take this feat multiple times, choosing a
different master warden spell each time.
MATURE ANIMAL COMPANION FEAT 6
RANGER
Prerequisites Animal Companion
Sample Ranger
ANIMAL RANGER

Sharing a powerful bond, you and your beloved animal
explore the wilds and fight in tandem.
Attributes

Prioritize Dexterity, followed by Constitution and
Wisdom. Take Strength if you want to deal more damage.

Skills

Acrobatics, Athletics, Medicine, Nature, Stealth, Survival

Hunter’s Edge

Outwit

Starting Feat

Animal Companion

Higher-Level Feats

Companion’s Cry (4th), Mature Animal Companion
(6th), Incredible Companion (10th), Side by Side (12th),
Specialized Companion (16th), Masterful Companion
(18th)
Your animal companion becomes a mature animal
companion and gains additional capabilities (page 211).
Your animal companion has greater independence. During
an encounter, even if you don’t use the Command an Animal
action, your animal companion can still use 1 action that round
on your turn to Stride or Strike. It can do this at any point
during your turn, as long as you aren’t currently taking an
action. If it does, that’s all the actions it gets that round—you
can’t Command it later.
SKIRMISH STRIKE [one-action] FEAT 6
FLOURISH RANGER
Your feet and weapon move in tandem. Either Step and then
Strike, or Strike and then Step.
SNAP SHOT FEAT 6
RANGER
You can react with ranged weapons when a creature is in
close quarters. You can use a reaction that normally allows
you to make a melee weapon Strike to instead make a
ranged weapon Strike. You must be Striking an adjacent
target. If necessary for the reaction’s trigger, you treat your
ranged weapon as if it had a reach of 5 feet. If the reaction
has other requirements, such as wielding a specific kind
of weapon, Snap Shot doesn’t allow you to ignore them; it
allows you only to replace a melee weapon Strike with a
ranged weapon Strike.
SWIFT TRACKER FEAT 6
RANGER
Prerequisites expert in Survival, Experienced Tracker
Your keen eyes catch signs of passage even when you’re
moving. You can move at your full Speed while you Track.
If you have master proficiency in Survival, you don’t need
to attempt a new Survival check every hour while Tracking.
If you have legendary proficiency in Survival, you can use
another exploration activity while Tracking.
If you roll Survival for initiative while tracking your hunted
prey, when you start your first turn of the encounter, you can
Stride toward your hunted prey as a free action.
8TH LEVEL
BLIND-FIGHT FEAT 8
RANGER
Prerequisites master in Perception
Your heightened senses allow you to instinctively
detect unseen opponents. You don’t need to
succeed at a flat check to target concealed
creatures. You’re not off-guard to creatures that
are hidden from you (unless you’re off-guard to them
for reasons other than the hidden condition), and
you need only a successful DC 5 flat check to target a
hidden creature.
While you’re adjacent to an undetected creature of your
level or lower, it is instead only hidden from you.
DEADLY AIM [one-action] FEAT 8
FLOURISH RANGER
Prerequisites weapon specialization
You aim for your prey’s weak spots, making your shot more
challenging but dealing more damage if you hit. Make a ranged
Strike against your hunted prey at a –2 penalty. You gain a
+4 circumstance bonus to damage on that Strike. This bonus
increases to +6 at 11th level and +8 at 15th level.
HAZARD FINDER FEAT 8
RANGER
You have an intuitive ability to sense hazards. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Perception checks to find traps and
hazards, to AC against their attacks, and to saves against their
effects. You can find hazards that would normally require you
to Search even if you aren’t Searching.
TERRAIN MASTER FEAT 8
RANGER
Prerequisites master in Survival, Favored Terrain
You are able to adapt to your surroundings in any natural
terrain. You can spend 1 hour practicing in your current
terrain in order to make it your favored terrain, replacing
your current favored terrain temporarily. If you spend a full
day out of the new favored terrain, your favored terrain
reverts back to your original choice when you took the
Favored Terrain feat.
WARDEN’S BOON [one-action] FEAT 8
RANGER
You point out vulnerabilities present in your hunted prey,
granting the benefits listed in Hunt Prey and your hunter’s
edge to an ally until the end of their next turn. Depending on
whether you call out or use gestures, this action gains either
the auditory or visual trait.
10TH LEVEL
CAMOUFLAGE FEAT 10
RANGER
Prerequisites master in Stealth
You alter your appearance to blend in to the wilderness. In
natural terrain, you can Hide and Sneak even without cover or
being concealed.
INCREDIBLE COMPANION FEAT 10
RANGER
Prerequisites Mature Animal Companion
Your animal companion continues to grow and develop. It
becomes a nimble or savage animal companion (your choice),
gaining additional capabilities determined by the type of
companion (page 211).
MASTER MONSTER HUNTER FEAT 10
RANGER
Prerequisites master in Nature, Monster Hunter

You have a nearly encyclopedic knowledge of all creatures of
the world. You can use Nature to Recall Knowledge to identify
any creature. In addition, you gain the benefits of Monster
Hunter (and Monster Warden, if you have it) on a success as
well as a critical success.
PEERLESS WARDEN FEAT 10
RANGER
Prerequisites Initiate Warden
Your mastery of primal magic has given you access to the
greatest secrets of warden magic. You gain your choice of one
warden spell from the peerless warden spells on page 384 (or
another you have access to).
Special You can take this feat multiple times, choosing a
different peerless warden spell each time.
PENETRATING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 10
RANGER
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon.
You shoot clear through an intervening creature to hit your
prey. Choose a target that is giving lesser cover to your hunted
prey. Make a single ranged Strike with the required weapon
against the chosen target and your hunted prey. This attack
ignores any lesser cover the chosen target provides your
hunted prey. Roll damage only once, and apply it to each
creature you hit. A Penetrating Shot counts as two attacks for
your multiple attack penalty.
TWIN RIPOSTE [reaction] FEAT 10
RANGER
Prerequisites Twin Parry
Trigger A creature within your reach critically fails a Strike
against you.
Requirements You are benefiting from Twin Parry
A clever parry with one weapon leaves your opponent open to
an attack with the other weapon. Make a melee Strike or use a
Disarm action against the triggering opponent.
WARDEN’S STEP FEAT 10
RANGER
Prerequisites master in Stealth
You can guide your allies to move quietly through the
wilderness. When you Avoid Notice during exploration in
natural terrain, you can designate any number of your allies
to gain the benefits as if they were using that activity during
that exploration. This requires no action on their part.
12TH LEVEL
DISTRACTING SHOT FEAT 12
RANGER
The sheer power of your attacks, or the overwhelming number
of them, leaves an enemy flustered. If you critically hit your
hunted prey with a ranged weapon, or hit it at least twice on
the same turn with a ranged weapon, it’s off-guard until the
start of your next turn.
DOUBLE PREY FEAT 12
RANGER
You can focus on two foes at once, hunting both of them
down. When you use the Hunt Prey action, you can pick two
creatures as your prey.
SECOND STING [one-action] FEAT 12
PRESS RANGER
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, each in a
different hand.
You read your prey’s movements and transform them into
openings, so failures with one weapon set up glancing blows
with the other. Make a melee Strike with one of the required
weapons against your hunted prey. The Strike gains the
following failure effect.
Failure You deal the damage the other required weapon
would have dealt on a hit, excluding all damage dice.
(This removes dice from weapon runes, spells, and special
abilities, not just weapon damage dice.)
SIDE BY SIDE FEAT 12
RANGER
Prerequisites an animal companion
You and your animal companion fight in tandem. Whenever
you and your animal companion are adjacent to the
same foe, you are both flanking that foe with each other,
regardless of your actual positions.
WARDEN’S FOCUS FEAT 12
RANGER
Prerequisites warden spells
Your connection with your surroundings deepens and
expands, allowing you to draw in more of nature’s primal
power as you focus. When you Refocus, you regain all your
Focus Points instead of 1.
14TH LEVEL
SENSE THE UNSEEN [reaction] FEAT 14
RANGER
Trigger You fail a check to Seek.
When you look for foes, you can catch even the slightest
cues, such as their minute movements or the shifting of
air currents on your skin. Even though you failed at the
triggering check, you automatically sense any undetected
creatures in the area where you’re Seeking, making them
merely hidden to you.
SHARED PREY FEAT 14
RANGER
Prerequisites Double Prey, Warden’s Boon
Hunting as a duo, you and your ally both single out your prey.
When you use Hunt Prey and select only one prey, you can
grant your Hunt Prey benefits and hunter’s edge to an ally
in addition to gaining them yourself. The ally retains these
benefits until you use Hunt Prey again.

STEALTHY COMPANION FEAT 14
RANGER
Prerequisites Animal Companion, Camouflage
You’ve trained your animal companion to blend in to its
surroundings. Your animal companion gains the benefit
of the Camouflage feat. If your companion is a specialized
ambusher, its proficiency rank for Stealth increases to master
(or legendary if it was already master).
WARDEN’S GUIDANCE FEAT 14
RANGER
You convey your prey’s location to your allies with a series
of careful words or gestures. As long as your hunted prey is
observed by you, all your allies who roll failures and critical
failures when Seeking it get a success instead. Your allies need
to be able to see or hear you to gain this benefit. You have to
be able to call out or make visible gestures for your allies to
get this benefit.
16TH LEVEL
GREATER DISTRACTING SHOT FEAT 16
RANGER
Prerequisites Distracting Shot
Even a single missile can throw off your enemy’s balance, and
more powerful attacks leave it flustered for longer. If you hit
your hunted prey with a ranged weapon, it’s off-guard until
the start of your next turn. If you critically hit your prey or hit
it twice on the same turn with a ranged weapon, it’s off-guard
until the end of your next turn instead.
IMPROVED TWIN RIPOSTE FEAT 16
RANGER
Prerequisites Twin Riposte
At the start of each of your turns, you gain an additional
reaction that you can use only to perform a Twin Riposte. You
can use this extra reaction even if you are not benefiting from
Twin Parry.
LEGENDARY MONSTER HUNTER FEAT 16
RANGER
Prerequisites legendary in Nature, Master Monster Hunter
Your knowledge of monsters is so incredible that it reveals
glaring flaws in your prey. Your bonus from Monster Hunter
(and the bonus from Monster Warden if you have it) increases
from +1 to +2 for you and any allies who benefit.
SPECIALIZED COMPANION FEAT 16
RANGER
Prerequisites Incredible Companion
Your animal companion continues to grow in power and
ability, and it is now cunning enough to become specialized.
Your animal companion gains one specialization of your choice
(page 211.)
Special You can select this feat up to three times. Each time,
add a different specialization to your companion.
WARDEN’S RELOAD [free-action] FEAT 16
RANGER
Frequency once per round
Requirements Your last action or activity this turn was to cast
a warden spell.
Your mastery of magic and weapons like the crossbow allow
you to wield both with equal ease. Interact to reload a weapon
you are currently wielding.
18TH LEVEL
IMPOSSIBLE FLURRY [three-actions] FEAT 18
FLOURISH RANGER
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, each in a
different hand.
You forgo precision to attack at an impossible speed. Make
three melee Strikes with each of the required weapons. Your
first attack with each weapon takes the multiple attack penalty
as though you had already made one attack this turn. All of the
remaining Strikes take the maximum multiple attack penalty.
IMPOSSIBLE VOLLEY [three-actions] FEAT 18
FLOURISH RANGER
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with the
volley trait and reload 0.
You fire a volley at all foes in an area. Make one Strike with a
–2 penalty against each enemy within a 10-foot burst centered
at or beyond your weapon’s volley range. Roll the damage only
once for all targets.
Each attack counts toward your multiple attack penalty,
but do not increase your penalty until you have made all
your attacks.
MANIFOLD EDGE FEAT 18
RANGER
Prerequisites hunter’s edge, masterful hunter
You’ve learned to leverage every possible edge. When you
use Hunt Prey, you can gain a different hunter’s edge benefit
instead of the one you selected at 1st level. If you do, you don’t
gain the additional benefit from masterful hunter.
MASTERFUL COMPANION FEAT 18
RANGER
Prerequisites masterful hunter, Animal Companion
Your animal companion shares your incredible hunting skills,
allowing it to take down your shared prey with ease. When
you Hunt Prey, your animal companion gains the masterful
hunter benefit associated with your hunter’s edge, rather than
just your original hunter’s edge benefit.
PERFECT SHOT [three-actions] FEAT 18
FLOURISH RANGER
Requirements You are wielding a loaded ranged weapon with
reload 1 or more, and you have not reloaded your weapon
since your last turn.
After watching the motions of combat with incredible intensity

and precision, you fire at your prey at the perfect moment to
deliver maximum pain. Make a ranged Strike with the required
weapon against your hunted prey. If you hit, the Strike deals
maximum damage. After the Strike, your turn ends.
SHADOW HUNTER FEAT 18
RANGER
Prerequisites Camouflage
You blend in to your surroundings so well that others have
trouble telling you apart from the terrain. While in natural
terrain, you’re always concealed from all foes if you choose to
be, except for your hunted prey.
20TH LEVEL
LEGENDARY SHOT FEAT 20
RANGER
Prerequisites legendary in Perception, Far Shot
You focus on your hunted prey, perceiving angles, air resistance,
and every variable that would affect your ranged attack. If you
have master proficiency with your ranged weapon, you can
ignore the penalty for attacking up to five range increments
away when attacking your hunted prey.
TO THE ENDS OF THE EARTH FEAT 20
RANGER
Prerequisites legendary in Survival
Your ability to track your prey has surpassed explanation,
allowing you to trace your prey’s movements and predict its
location with ease. When you use Hunt Prey on a creature
within 100 feet, you can follow that creature’s movements,
allowing you to know the creature’s exact location no
matter how far away it becomes, as long as it remains your
prey. You must be legendary in Nature to track your prey’s
location across teleportation or planar travel. This feat
gains the detection and primal traits if you’re legendary
in Nature.
TRIPLE THREAT FEAT 20
RANGER
Prerequisites Shared Prey
You can divide your attention three ways when hunting. When
you use Hunt Prey, you can designate three creatures as prey,
designate two creatures as prey and share the effect with one
ally (as Shared Prey), or designate one creature as prey and
share the effect with two allies.
ULTIMATE SKIRMISHER FEAT 20
RANGER
Prerequisites unimpeded journey
You are so skilled at navigating the wild, your movement is
completely unaffected by terrain. You ignore the effects of all
difficult terrain, greater difficult terrain, and hazardous terrain,
and you don’t trigger traps and hazards that are triggered by
moving into an area (such as trip wires and pressure plates),
unless you want to.
ROGUE
You are skilled and opportunistic. Using your sharp wits and quick reactions, you
take advantage of your opponents’ missteps and strike where it hurts most. You
play a dangerous game, seeking thrills and testing your skills, and likely don’t
care much for any laws that happen to get in your way. While the path of every
rogue is unique and riddled with danger, the one thing you all share in common is the
breadth and depth of your skills.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Dexterity or other
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to Dexterity or
an option from rogue’s racket.
HIT POINTS
8 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Expert in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Expert in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Stealth
Trained in one or more skills
determined by your rogue’s racket
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 7 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in martial weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in rogue class DCDuring combat encounters...
You move about stealthily so you can catch foes unawares. You’re a precision
instrument, more useful against a tough boss or distant spellcaster than against
rank-and-file soldiers.
During social encounters...
Your skills give you multiple tools to influence your opposition. Pulling cons
and ferreting out information are second nature to you.
While exploring...
You sneak to get the drop on foes and scout for danger or traps. You’re a great
asset, since you can disable traps, solve puzzles, and anticipate dangers.
In downtime...
You might pick pockets or trade in illegal goods. You can also become part of a
thieves’ guild, or even found one of your own.
You might...
• Hone your skills through intense practice, both on your own and out in
the world.
• Know where to attain illicit goods.
• Skirt or break the law because you think it’s meaningless or have your
own code.
Others probably...
• Find you charming or fascinating, even if they think they know better than
to trust you.
• Come to you when they need someone who is willing to take risks or use
questionable methods.
• Suspect you’re motivated primarily by greed.
ROGUE ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1 Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, rogue’s racket, sneak attack
1d6, surprise attack, rogue feat, skill feat
2 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
3 Deny advantage, general feat, skill feat, skill
increase
4 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
5 Attribute boosts, ancestry feat, skill feat, skill
increase, sneak attack 2d6, weapon tricks
6 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
7 Evasive reflexes, general feat, skill feat, skill
increase, vigilant senses, weapon specialization
8 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
9 Ancestry feat, debilitating strike, rogue
resilience, skill feat, skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, rogue feat, skill feat, skill
increase
11 General feat, rogue expertise, skill feat, skill
increase, sneak attack 3d6
12 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
13 Ancestry feat, improved rogue reflexes,
incredible senses, light armor expertise, master
tricks, skill feat, skill increase
14 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
15 Attribute boosts, double debilitation, general
feat, greater weapon specialization, skill feat,
skill increase
16 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
17 Ancestry feat, skill feat, skill increase, slippery
mind, sneak attack 4d6
18 Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
19 General feat, light armor mastery, master
strike, skill feat, skill increase
20 Attribute boosts, rogue feat, skill feat, skill
increase
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a rogue. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to
the features’ names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you
have the benefits of your selected ancestry and background.
These are described in Chapter 2.
Attribute Boosts
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you
have four free boosts to different attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four
free boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute
modifier is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to
increase it; you get a partial boost, and must boost that
attribute again at a later level to increase it by 1.

Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These are noted at the start
of this class.
Rogue’s Racket
You’ve begun to develop your techniques and approach
to a job, while building your reputation in rogues’ circles.
Choose a rogue’s racket from the list below.
Mastermind
You rely on your intellect to craft intricate schemes, planning
10 steps ahead where others might plan three. You might be
a driven detective, a spymaster in the service of a powerful
house, or an aspiring crime lord or information broker.
If you successfully identify a creature using Recall
Knowledge, that creature is off-guard against your attacks
until the start of your next turn; if you critically succeed,
it’s off-guard against your attacks for 1 minute.
You’re trained in Society and one of the following skills
of your choice: Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion.
You can choose Intelligence as your key attribute.
Ruffian
You prefer the direct approach: strong-arming or
intimidation. You might be an enforcer for organized
crime, a highway bandit, or a noble who bullies others with
threats of your family’s power.
You use whatever tools you have to get the job done. You
can deal sneak attack damage with any weapon, not just
the weapons listed in the sneak attack class feature. This
benefit doesn’t apply to a simple weapon with a damage
die greater than d8 or a martial or advanced weapon with
a damage die greater than d6. (Apply any abilities that alter
the damage die size first.) Critical hits you make with these
weapons gain the weapon’s critical specialization benefit
(page 283) if the target is off-guard to you.
You’re trained in Intimidation and medium armor. You
can choose Strength as your key attribute. When you gain
light armor expertise, you also gain expert proficiency in
medium armor, and when you gain light armor mastery,
you also gain master proficiency in medium armor.
Scoundrel
You use fast-talking, flattery, and a silver tongue to avoid
danger and escape tricky situations. You might be a
grifter or con artist, or you might use your skills in certain
reputable professions, like a barrister or diplomat.

When you successfully Feint (page 239), the target is off-
guard against your melee attacks until the end of your next

turn. On a critical success, the target is off-guard against all
melee attacks until the end of your next turn, not just yours.
If you Feint while wielding an agile or finesse melee weapon,
you can step immediately after the Feint as a free action.
You’re trained in Deception and Diplomacy. You can
choose Charisma as your key attribute.
Thief
Nothing beats the thrill of taking something that belongs
to someone else. You might be a pickpocket working the
streets, a cat burglar sneaking through windows, or even a
consultant, testing your clients’ vaults for openings.
When a fight breaks out, you prefer swift, lightweight
weapons, and you strike where it hurts. When you attack
with a finesse melee weapon or finesse melee unarmed
attack, you can add your Dexterity modifier to damage
rolls instead of your Strength modifier.
You are trained in Thievery.
Sneak Attack
When your enemy can’t properly defend itself, you take
advantage to deal extra damage. If you Strike a creature
that has the off-guard condition (page 445) with an agile or
finesse melee weapon, an agile or finesse unarmed attack,
a ranged weapon attack, or a ranged unarmed attack, you
deal an extra 1d6 precision damage. For a ranged attack
with a thrown melee weapon, that weapon must also be
agile or finesse.
As your rogue level increases, so does the number of
damage dice for your sneak attack. Increase the number of
dice by one at 5th, 11th, and 17th levels.
Surprise Attack
You spring into combat faster than foes can react. On the
first round of combat, if you roll Deception or Stealth for
initiative, creatures that haven’t acted are off-guard to you.
Rogue Feats
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain a
rogue class feat. These begin on page 169.
Skill Feats
You gain skill feats more often than others. At 1st level and
every level thereafter, you gain a skill feat. Skill feats can be
found in Chapter 4 and have the skill trait.
Skill Increases 2nd
You gain more skill increases than members of other
classes. At 2nd level and every level thereafter, you gain a
skill increase. You can use this increase to either become
trained in one skill you’re untrained in or become an expert
in one skill in which you’re already trained.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and at
15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a skill
in which you’re already a master.
Deny Advantage 3rd
As someone who takes advantage of openings, you are
careful not to leave such gaps yourself. You aren’t off-guard
to hidden, undetected, or flanking creatures of your level or
lower, or creatures of your level or lower using surprise
attack. However, they can still help their allies flank.

General Feats 3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a general
feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
Ancestry Feats 5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Weapon Tricks 5th
You gain expert proficiency in simple weapons, martial
weapons, and unarmed attacks. When you critically
succeed at an attack roll against an off-guard creature
while using an agile or finesse weapon or an agile or finesse
unarmed attack, you apply the critical specialization
effect for that weapon or unarmed attack.
Evasive Reflexes 7th
You’ve learned to move quickly to avoid explosions,
dragons’ breath, and worse. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to master. When you roll a success
on a Reflex save, you get a critical success instead.
Perception Mastery 7th
You’ve developed keen awareness and attention to detail.
Your proficiency rank for Perception increases to master.
Weapon Specialization 7th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and
4 if you’re legendary.
Debilitating Strike 9th
When taking advantage of an opening, you both hinder and
harm your foe. You gain the Debilitating Strike free action.
DEBILITATING STRIKE [free-action]
ROGUE
Trigger Your Strike hits an off-guard creature and deals damage.
You apply one of the following debilitations, which lasts until
the end of your next turn.
• Debilitation The target takes a –10-foot status penalty to
its Speeds.
• Debilitation The target becomes enfeebled 1.

Rogue Resilience 9th
Your physique is incredibly hardy. Your proficiency rank for
Fortitude saves increases to expert. When you roll a success
on a Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead.
Rogue Expertise 11th
Your techniques are now harder to resist. Your proficiency
rank for your rogue class DC increases to expert.
Greater Rogue Reflexes 13th
You elude danger to a degree that few can match. Your
proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to legendary.
When you roll a critical failure on a Reflex save, you get
a failure instead. When you roll a failure on a Reflex save
against a damaging effect, you take half damage.
Perception Legend 13th
You notice things almost impossible for an ordinary person
to detect. Your proficiency rank for Perception increases
to legendary.
Light Armor Expertise 13th
You’ve learned how to dodge while wearing light or
no armor. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and
unarmored defense increase to expert.
Master Tricks 13th
You’ve mastered a rogue’s fighting moves. Your proficiency
ranks increase to master for all simple weapons, martial
weapons, and unarmed attacks.
Double Debilitation 15th
Your opportunistic attacks are particularly detrimental.
When you use Debilitating Strike, you can apply two
debilitations simultaneously; removing one removes both.
Greater Weapon Specialization 15th
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
Agile Mind 17th
You play mental games and employ cognitive tricks to
throw off mind-altering effects. Your proficiency rank for
Will saves increases to master. When you roll a success at a
Will save, you get a critical success instead.
Light Armor Mastery 19th
Your skill with light armor improves, increasing your
ability to dodge blows. Your proficiency ranks for light
armor and unarmored defense increase to master.
Master Strike 19th
You can incapacitate an unwary foe with a single strike.
Your proficiency rank for your rogue class DC increases to
master. You gain the Master Strike free action.
MASTER STRIKE [free-action]
INCAPACITATION ROGUE
Trigger Your Strike hits an off-guard creature and deals damage.
The target attempts a Fortitude save against your class DC. It then
becomes temporarily immune to your Master Strike for 1 day.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is enfeebled 2 until the end of your
next turn.
Failure The target is paralyzed for 4 rounds.
Critical Failure The target is paralyzed for 4 rounds, knocked
unconscious for 2 hours, or killed (your choice).

KEY TERMS

Below are some key terms in many rogue class features.
Debilitation: Debilitations apply conditions and other
negative effects to a creature. When the creature is
affected by a new debilitation, any previous one it was
affected by ends.
Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques
that require too much exertion for you to perform
frequently. You can use only 1 action with the flourish
trait per turn.
Stance: A stance is a general combat strategy that
you enter by using an action with the stance trait, and
you remain in for some time. A stance lasts until you get
knocked out, until its requirements (if any) are violated,
until the encounter ends, or until you use a stance action
again, whichever comes first. After you take an action
with the stance trait, you can’t take another one for 1
round. You can enter or be in a stance only in encounter
mode. You can Dismiss a stance.
Rogue Feats
At every level that you gain a rogue feat, you can select one
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites
before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
NIMBLE DODGE [reaction] FEAT 1
ROGUE
Trigger A creature targets you with an attack and you can see
the attacker.
Requirements You are not encumbered.
You deftly dodge out of the way, gaining a +2 circumstance
bonus to AC against the triggering attack.

OVEREXTENDING FEINT FEAT 1
ROGUE
Prerequisites trained in Deception
You goad a foe into overextending. On a successful Feint, you
can use the following success and critical success effects
instead of any other effects that would occur when you Feint.
Critical Success The target takes a –2 circumstance penalty to
all attack rolls against you before the end of its next turn.
Success The target takes a –2 circumstance penalty to its next
attack roll against you before the end of its next turn.
PLANT EVIDENCE [one-action] FEAT 1
ROGUE
Prerequisites Pickpocket
You can put a single item you’re holding of light or negligible
Bulk onto a person without them noticing by succeeding at
a Thievery check against their Perception DC. If you have
the ruffian racket, you can do this as a free action when you
successfully Shove a target.
TRAP FINDER FEAT 1
ROGUE
You have an intuitive sense that alerts you to the presence of
traps. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Perception checks
to find traps, to AC against attacks made by traps, and to saves
against traps. Even if you aren’t Searching, you get a check tofind traps that normally require you to be Searching. You still
need to meet any other requirements to find the trap.
You can disable traps that require a proficiency rank of
master in Thievery. If you have master proficiency in Thievery,
you can disable traps that require a proficiency rank of
legendary instead, and your circumstance bonuses against
traps increase to +2.
ROGUE FEATS BY NAME
Feat Level
Analyze Weakness 6
Anticipate Ambush 6
Blank Slate 16
Blind-Fight 8
Bloody Debilitation 12
Brutal Beating 2
Bullseye 8
Clever Gambit 2
Cloud Step 16
Cognitive Loophole 16
Critical Debilitation 12
Defensive Roll 14
Delay Trap 8
Dispelling Slice 16
Distracting Feint 2
Dread Striker 4
Fantastic Leap 12
Far Throw 6
Felling Shot 12
Gang Up 6
Head Stomp 4
Hidden Paragon 20
Implausible Infiltration 18
Implausible Purchase 18
Impossible Striker 20
Improved Poison Weapon 8
Inspired Stratagem 8
Instant Opening 14
Leave An Opening 14
Light Step 6
Methodical Debilitations 10
Mobility 2
Mug 4
Nimble Dodge 1
Nimble Roll 8
Nimble Strike 10
Opportune Backstab 8
Overextending Feint 1
Perfect Distraction 16
Plant Evidence 1

Poison Weapon 4
Powerful Sneak 18
Precise Debilitations 10
Predictable! 4
Predictive Purchase 8
Preparation 12
Quick Draw 2
Reactive Distraction 20
Reactive Interference 12
Reactive Pursuit 4
Reconstruct The Scene 16
Ricochet Feint 12
Ricochet Stance 8
Sabotage 4
Scoundrel’s Surprise 4
Scout’s Warning 4
Sense the Unseen 14
Shove Down 6
Sidestep 8
Skirmish Strike 6
Sly Disarm 6
Sly Striker 8
Sneak Adept 10
Spring from the Shadows 12
Stay Down! 14
Strong Arm 2
Swift Elusion 16
Swipe Souvenir 8
Tactical Debilitations 10
Tactical Entry 8
The Harder They Fall 4
Trap Finder 1
Tumble Behind 1
Twin Distraction 4
Twin Feint 1
Twist The Knife 6
Unbalancing Blow 2
Underhanded Assault 2
Vicious Debilitations 10
Watch Your Back 6
You’re Next 1
TUMBLE BEHIND FEAT 1
ROGUE
You tumble under and behind your foe, your rapid movement
letting you catch them off guard. When you successfully
Tumble Through, the foe whose space you passed through

is off-guard against the next attack you make before the end
of your turn.
TWIN FEINT [two-actions] FEAT 1
ROGUE
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, each in a
different hand.
You use an attack with one weapon to distract your foe
from a second attack coming at a different angle. Make one
Strike with each of your two melee weapons, both against
the same target. The target is automatically off-guard against
the second attack. Apply your multiple attack penalty to the
Strikes normally.
YOU’RE NEXT [reaction] FEAT 1
EMOTION FEAR MENTAL ROGUE VISUAL
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
Trigger You reduce an enemy to 0 Hit Points.
After downing a foe, you menace another. Attempt to Demoralize
a creature within 60 feet, with a +2 circumstance bonus. If you
have legendary proficiency in Intimidation, you can use this as a
free action with the same trigger.
2ND LEVEL
BRUTAL BEATING FEAT 2
ROGUE
Prerequisites ruffian racket
Your critical hits shakes your foes’ confidence. Whenever your
Strike is a critical hit and deals damage, the target is frightened 1.
CLEVER GAMBIT [reaction] FEAT 2
ROGUE
Prerequisites mastermind racket
Trigger Your Strike critically hits and deals damage to a creature
you’ve identified with Recall Knowledge.
Your battle tactics are aided by assessing your foe’s capabilities
and range. You Step or Stride; this movement doesn’t trigger
reactions from the triggering creature.
DISTRACTING FEINT FEAT 2
ROGUE
Prerequisites scoundrel racket
Your Feints are far more distracting than normal. While a
creature is off-guard by your Feint, it also takes a –2 circumstance
penalty to Perception checks and Reflex saves.
MOBILITY FEAT 2
ROGUE
You move without leaving an opening. When you Stride and move
half your Speed or less, that movement does not trigger reactions.
You can use Mobility when Climbing, Flying, or Swimming instead
of Striding if you have the corresponding movement type.
QUICK DRAW [one-action] FEAT 2
ROGUE
You draw your weapon and attack with the same motion. You
Interact to draw a weapon, then Strike with that weapon.
STRONG ARM FEAT 2
ROGUE
When you Strike with a thrown weapon, the weapon’s range
increment increases by 10 feet.
UNBALANCING BLOW FEAT 2
ROGUE
Prerequisites thief racket
Interweaving attacks, you unbalance your foes. Whenever

your Strike is a critical hit and deals damage, the target is off-
guard against your attacks until the end of your next turn.

UNDERHANDED ASSAULT [two-actions] FEAT 2
ROGUE
Prerequisites trained in Stealth
You capitalize on the distraction provided by an ally. You Sneak
up to a foe adjacent to one of your allies. You can roll against
the foe you’re Sneaking up on, even if it’s currently observing
you, as though you were hidden. You take a –2 penalty on your
Stealth check. If your Stealth check against the chosen foe
succeeds, you can make a melee Strike against that foe at the
end of your Sneak.
4TH LEVEL
DREAD STRIKER FEAT 4
ROGUE
You capitalize on your enemies’ fear to slip past their defenses.
Any creature that has the frightened condition is also off-guard
against your attacks.
HEAD STOMP [one-action] FEAT 4
ROGUE
Make an unarmed melee Strike against a prone target. If it
hits, until the end of your next turn the target is stupefied 1 (or
stupefied 2 on a critical hit) and off-guard.
MUG [two-actions] FEAT 4
ROGUE
You make a quick attack and rob your foe in the process. Make
a melee Strike against an adjacent enemy. If you hit and deal
sneak attack damage, you can also attempt to Steal from the
target, even if the target is in combat.
POISON WEAPON [one-action] FEAT 4
MANIPULATE ROGUE
Requirements You are wielding a weapon.
You apply a contact poison or injury poison to the required
weapon; if you have a free hand, you can Interact to draw a
poison as part of this action. This poison can be one of the
simple injury poisons you can create due to this feat (see
Special), or another contact or injury poison you’ve acquired
(such as those in GM Core).
Special During your daily preparations, you can prepare a
number of simple injury poisons equal to your rogue level.
These follow the rules for injury poisons (GM Core, page 248),
except that they deal 1d4 poison damage with no saving
throw. Only you can apply these poisons properly, and they
expire the next time you prepare.
PREDICTABLE! [one-action] FEAT 4
ROGUE
By observing an opponent, you can get a sense of their next
move and prepare to counter or resist it. Choose one target and
attempt a Perception check to Sense Motive against the foe’s
Deception DC or a hard DC of the foe’s level, whichever is higher.
Critical Success You precisely discern the target’s strategy,
gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to AC against the creature
until the start of your next turn and a +2 circumstance bonus
to your next saving throw against the creature before the
start of your next turn.
Success You deduce the gist of the target’s strategy; as critical
success, except the circumstance bonus is only +1.
Failure You fail to discern the target’s strategy and gain
no benefit.
Critical Failure You misinterpret the target’s strategy and take a
–1 circumstance penalty to AC against the creature until the
start of your next turn, and a –1 circumstance penalty to your
next saving throw against the creature before the start of
your next turn.
REACTIVE PURSUIT [reaction] FEAT 4
ROGUE
Trigger An adjacent foe moves away from you, and you can reach
at least one space adjacent to the foe with a Stride action.
You keep pace with a retreating foe. You Stride, but you must
end your movement adjacent to the triggering enemy. Your
move does not trigger reactions from the triggering enemy.
You can use Reactive Pursuit to Burrow, Climb, Fly, or Swim
instead of Stride if you have the corresponding movement type.
SABOTAGE [one-action] FEAT 4
INCAPACITATION ROGUE
Requirements You have a free hand.
You subtly damage others’ equipment. Choose one item that a
creature within your reach wields or carries. The item must have
moving parts that you could possibly sabotage (a shortbow could
be sabotaged, but a longsword could not). Attempt a Thievery
check against the Reflex DC of the creature. Damage dealt by
Sabotage can’t take the item below its Broken Threshold.
Critical Success You deal damage equal to 4 x your Thievery
proficiency bonus.
Success You deal damage equal to double your Thievery
proficiency bonus.
Critical Failure The item is temporarily immune to your
Sabotage for 1 day.
SCOUNDREL’S SURPRISE [one-action] FEAT 4
MANIPULATE ROGUE
You drop your disguise at the right moment and surprise your
target. After you Impersonate someone else using a disguise
kit, you can remove your disguise with a dramatic gesture. Any
creatures that previously failed to see through your disguise are
off-guard against the next attack you make before the end of
your turn.
SCOUT’S WARNING [free-action] FEAT 4
ROGUE
Trigger You are about to roll a Perception or Survival check
for initiative.
You visually or audibly warn your allies of danger, granting them
each a +1 circumstance bonus to their initiative rolls. Depending
on whether you use gestures or call out, this action gains either
the visual or auditory trait, respectively.

THE HARDER THEY FALL FEAT 4
ROGUE
You make your foes fall painfully when you trip them. When
you successfully Trip an off-guard foe, your target takes 1d6
bludgeoning damage. On a critical success, the target takes 1d6
bludgeoning damage plus your sneak attack damage.
TWIN DISTRACTION FEAT 4
ROGUE
Prerequisites Twin Feint
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, each in a
different hand.
Your movements with two weapons are so swift and disorienting
that they befuddle your opponent. When using Twin Feint, if
both your Strikes deal damage to a targeted creature, the target
must succeed at a Will saving throw against your class DC or
become stupefied 1 until the end of your next turn.
6TH LEVEL
ANALYZE WEAKNESS [one-action] FEAT 6
ROGUE
Prerequisites sneak attack 2d6
Requirements You have identified a creature with Recall
Knowledge.
Your knowledge of a creature’s physiology helps you attack with
pinpoint accuracy. You carefully study a creature that you’ve
identified to scope out particularly weak points in its positioning
or physical form. The next time you deal sneak attack damage
to the chosen creature with a Strike before the end of your turn,
add an additional 2d6 precision damage.
At 11th level, the additional damage becomes 3d6, and at 17th
level it becomes 4d6.
ANTICIPATE AMBUSH FEAT 6
EXPLORATION ROGUE
Prerequisites expert in Stealth
You keep watch for any hidden creatures or dangerous sites,
moving at half your travel Speed. If you’re Anticipating an
Ambush at the start of an encounter, you roll a Perception check
for initiative, and all enemies rolling Stealth for initiative take a
–2 circumstance penalty to their Stealth checks.
FAR THROW FEAT 6
ROGUE
When you Strike with a thrown weapon, you take only a –1
penalty for each additional range increment between you and
the target, rather than a –2 penalty.
GANG UP FEAT 6
ROGUE
You and your allies harry an opponent in concert. You can flank an
enemy if it’s within reach of both of you and an ally—you and your
ally don’t have to be on opposite sides. This benefits your allies as
well as you, but only if they’re flanking with you, not each other.
The other requirements for flanking must still be met.
LIGHT STEP FEAT 6
ROGUE
You aren’t bothered by tricky footing. When you Stride or Step,
you can ignore difficult terrain.
SHOVE DOWN [free-action] FEAT 6
ROGUE
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
Requirements Your last action was a successful Shove.
You leverage your weight to topple foes that you move. You
attempt to Trip the target, even if the target is no longer in
your reach.
SKIRMISH STRIKE [one-action] FEAT 6
FLOURISH ROGUE
Your feet and weapon move in tandem. Either Step and then
Strike, or Strike and then Step.
SLY DISARM FEAT 6
ROGUE
You can Disarm a creature through sleight of hand rather than
brute force. You can use Thievery instead of Athletics when you
attempt a Disarm. When you use Thievery to attempt a Disarm
and succeed, the target is off-guard against the next attack you
make before the end of your turn.
TWIST THE KNIFE [one-action] FEAT 6
ROGUE
Requirements Your last action was a melee Strike that dealt
sneak attack damage to an off-guard target.
After stabbing your opponent in a weak spot, you tear the
wound open. You deal persistent bleed damage to the target
equal to your number of sneak attack damage dice.
WATCH YOUR BACK [one-action] FEAT 6
EMOTION FEAR MENTAL ROGUE
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
You menace the target, stoking their fears and drawing their
attention. Attempt an Intimidation check against the Will DC of
a target within 30 feet. If you succeed, for 1 minute, that target
gains a +2 status bonus to Perception checks against you, but
it takes a –2 status penalty to Will saves against fear effects.
8TH LEVEL
BLIND-FIGHT FEAT 8
ROGUE
Prerequisites master in Perception
Your battle instincts make you more aware of concealed and
invisible opponents. You don’t need to succeed at a flat check
to target concealed creatures. You’re not off-guard to creatures
that are hidden from you (unless you’re off-guard to them for
reasons other than the hidden condition), and you need only a
successful DC 5 flat check to target a hidden creature.
While you’re adjacent to an undetected creature of your level
or lower, it is instead only hidden from you.

BULLSEYE [one-action] FEAT 8
ROGUE
You carefully take aim to avoid your foe’s concealment and
cover. On your next Strike with a thrown weapon before the end
of your turn, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to your attack
roll and ignore your target’s concealed condition, as well as the
target’s lesser cover or standard cover; if the target had greater
cover, they instead have only standard cover against the Strike.
DELAY TRAP [reaction] FEAT 8
ROGUE
Trigger A trap within your reach is triggered.
You try to jam the workings of a trap to delay its effects.
Attempt a Thievery check to Disable a Device on the trap with
the following results instead of the normal ones for the action.
Critical Success You either prevent the trap from being triggered
or delay the activation until the start or end of your next turn.
Success As above, but the GM chooses whichever is worse for
you.
Failure No effect.
Critical Failure You’re off-guard until the start of your next turn.
IMPROVED POISON WEAPON FEAT 8
ROGUE
Prerequisites Poison Weapon
You deliver poisons in ways that maximize their harmful effects.
When you apply a simple poison with Poison Weapon, the
poison deals 2d4 poison damage instead of 1d4 poison damage.
You don’t waste a poison you apply with Poison Weapon on a
critically failed attack roll.
INSPIRED STRATAGEM FEAT 8
ROGUE
During your daily preparations, you can review stratagems for
the day’s adventures with up to five allies. Later, you can quickly
advise them on your schemes using the below reaction.
Inspired Stratagem [reaction] (fortune, linguistic) Trigger An ally you
reviewed stratagems with is about to attempt an attack
roll or skill check; Effect The ally rolls the triggering check
twice and takes the better of the two results. That ally then
becomes temporarily immune to your Inspired Stratagem
until your next daily preparations.
NIMBLE ROLL FEAT 8
ROGUE
Prerequisites Nimble Dodge
You throw yourself into a roll to escape imminent danger.
You can use Nimble Dodge before attempting a Reflex save in
addition to its original trigger. If you do, the circumstance bonus
applies to your Reflex save against the triggering effect.
When you use Nimble Dodge and the triggering attack fails
or critically fails, or when you succeed or critically succeed at
the saving throw, you can also Stride up to 10 feet as part of the
reaction. If you do, the reaction gains the move trait. You can
use Nimble Roll while Flying or Swimming instead of Striding if
you have the corresponding movement type.
Sample Rogue
RUFFIAN

You rely on brute force and underhanded deeds to get
the job done.

Attribute Modifiers

Prioritize Dexterity, plus Strength to deal extra damage.
Charisma helps you intimidate others.
Skills

Acrobatics, Athletics, Deception, Diplomacy, Intimidation,
Society, Stealth, Survival, Thievery, Underworld Lore

Rogue’s Racket

Ruffian

Starting Feat

You’re Next

Higher-Level Feats

Brutal Beating (2nd), Head Stomp (4th), Vicious
Debilitations (10th), Stay Down! (14th), Powerful Sneak
(18th)
OPPORTUNE BACKSTAB [reaction] FEAT 8
ROGUE
Trigger A creature within your melee reach is hit by a melee
attack from one of your allies.
When your enemy is hit by your ally, you capitalize upon the
distraction. Make a Strike against the triggering creature.
PREDICTIVE PURCHASE FEAT 8
ROGUE
You somehow manage to have just the thing for the situation.
You gain the Prescient Planner and Prescient Consumable feats
(page 260). When using Prescient Planner, you can draw the
item from your backpack (or a similar container) as a 2-action
activity, instead of taking 1 minute to do so.
RICOCHET STANCE [one-action] FEAT 8
ROGUE STANCE
You adopt a stance to rebound your thrown weapons toward
you. While you are in this stance, any thrown weapons you
use as part of a ranged Strike to deal bludgeoning or slashing
damage immediately return to your hand, enabling you to use
them for additional Strikes. You must be within the weapon’s
listed range increment and have a hand free to catch the
weapon. If you make a ranged Strike with a thrown weapon
outside of its listed range increment, it instead flies back toward
you a number of feet equal to its listed range increment and
then falls to the ground.
SIDESTEP [reaction] FEAT 8
ROGUE
Trigger The attack roll for a Strike targeting you fails or
critically fails.
You deftly step out of the way of an attack, letting the blow
continue. You redirect the attack to a creature of your choice that
is adjacent to you and within the reach of the triggering attack.
The attacker rerolls the Strike’s attack roll against the new target.
SLY STRIKER FEAT 8
ROGUE
Prerequisites sneak attack
Your attacks deal more damage, even against creatures that
aren’t off-guard. When you succeed or critically succeed at a
Strike against a creature that isn’t off-guard, you also deal 1d6
precision damage. This applies only if you’re using a weapon or
unarmed attack you could deal sneak attack damage with.
At 14th level, if you would normally deal 3d6 or more sneak
attack damage to off-guard creatures, you deal 2d6 precision
damage to creatures that aren’t off-guard.
SWIPE SOUVENIR [two-actions] FEAT 8
ROGUE
Requirements You’re grabbed or restrained by a creature.
When you wriggle free from an enemy’s grasp, you take something
of theirs with you. You attempt to Escape from being grabbed or
restrained by a creature. If you succeed, you can also attempt to
Steal from the creature, even if the creature is in combat.
TACTICAL ENTRY [free-action] FEAT 8
ROGUE
Prerequisites master in Stealth
Requirements You rolled Stealth for initiative in this encounter,
and neither you nor any enemies have acted yet.
You Stride. This movement doesn’t trigger any reactions.
10TH LEVEL
METHODICAL DEBILITATIONS FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisites mastermind racket, Debilitating Strike
You strategically craft your debilitations to lessen or negate an
enemy’s tactical advantages. Add the following debilitations to
the list you can choose from when you use Debilitating Strike.
• Debilitation The target can’t flank or contribute to
allies’ flanking.
• Debilitation The target doesn’t gain a circumstance bonus
to AC from Raising a Shield, lesser cover, or standard cover;
it gains a +2 circumstance bonus to AC only from greater
cover or Taking Cover.
NIMBLE STRIKE FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisites Nimble Roll
You’re cunning enough to find an opening in an opponent’s attack.
When you use your Nimble Dodge reaction, you can make a
melee Strike against the triggering creature. This Strike doesn’t
count toward your multiple attack penalty, and your multiple
attack penalty doesn’t apply to this Strike. If you use the Nimble
Roll feat, you can make this Strike at any point during your roll.
PRECISE DEBILITATIONS FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisites thief racket, Debilitating Strike
You attack with great precision. Add the following debilitations
to the list you can choose from when you use Debilitating Strike.
• Debilitation The target takes an additional 2d6 precision
damage from your attacks.
• Debilitation The target becomes off-guard.
SNEAK ADEPT FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisite master in Stealth
It’s almost impossible to spot you. When you roll a failure on a
Sneak action, you get a success instead. You can still critically fail.
TACTICAL DEBILITATIONS FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisites scoundrel racket, Debilitating Strike
You learn new debilitations that grant you tactical advantages
against your foes. Add the following debilitations to the list you
can choose from when you use Debilitating Strike.
• Debilitation The target can’t use reactions.
• Debilitation The target can’t flank or contribute to
allies’ flanking.

VICIOUS DEBILITATIONS FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisites ruffian racket, Debilitating Strike
The debilitations you dish out seriously impair your foes. Add
the following debilitations to the list you can choose from when
you use Debilitating Strike.
• Debilitation The target gains weakness 5 to your choice of
bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage.
• Debilitation The target becomes clumsy 1.
12TH LEVEL
BLOODY DEBILITATION FEAT 12
ROGUE
Prerequisites trained in Medicine, Debilitating Strike
Your attacks slice arteries and veins. Add the following
debilitation to the list you can choose from when you use
Debilitating Strike.
• Debilitation The target takes 3d6 persistent bleed damage.
CRITICAL DEBILITATION FEAT 12
INCAPACITATION ROGUE
Prerequisites Debilitating Strike
Your debilitations are especially effective on your most powerful
attacks. Whenever you critically succeed at an attack roll
against an enemy and use Debilitating Strike, add the following
debilitation to the list you can choose from.
• Debilitation The target attempts a Fortitude save against
your class DC with the following effects.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is slowed 1 until the end of your next turn.
Failure The target is slowed 2 until the end of your next turn.
Critical Failure The target is paralyzed until the end of your
next turn.
FANTASTIC LEAP [two-actions] FEAT 12
ROGUE
You launch yourself through the air at a foe. Attempt a High
Jump or Long Jump. If you attempt a High Jump, determine the
height of your jump as though determining the length of a Long
Jump. At the end of your jump, you can make a melee Strike.
After your Strike, you fall to the ground if you’re in the air. If
the distance of your fall is no more than the height of your jump,
you take no damage and land upright.
FELLING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 12
ROGUE
Your ranged attacks can shoot an unprepared foe right out of
the air. Make a ranged Strike against an off-guard creature.
If the Strike is a success and deals damage, the target must
attempt a Reflex save against your class DC.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure The target falls up to 120 feet. If it hits the ground, it
takes no damage from the fall.
Critical Failure As failure, and the target can’t fly, jump, levitate,
or otherwise leave the ground until the end of your next turn.
PREPARATION [one-action] FEAT 12
FLOURISH ROGUE
You survey the battlefield, calculating the possibilities. You gain
one additional reaction, which you can use before the beginning
of your next turn for any rogue reaction.
REACTIVE INTERFERENCE [reaction] FEAT 12
ROGUE
Trigger An adjacent enemy begins to use a reaction.
Grabbing a sleeve, swiping with your weapon, or creating
another obstruction, you reflexively foil an enemy’s response.
If the triggering creature’s level is equal to or lower than yours,
you disrupt the triggering reaction. If the triggering creature’s
level is higher than yours, you must make an attack roll against
its AC. On a success, you disrupt the reaction.
RICOCHET FEINT FEAT 12
ROGUE
Prerequisites Ricochet Stance
While in Ricochet Stance, you can bounce a thrown weapon off
a foe to distract them. You can attempt a Feint against a creature
within the first range increment of a thrown weapon you are
wielding, rather than only creatures within your melee reach.
SPRING FROM THE SHADOWS [one-action] FEAT 12
FLOURISH ROGUE
You leap from hiding and assail your target. You Stride up to your
Speed, but you must end your movement next to an enemy you’re
hidden from or undetected by. You then Strike that enemy; you
remain hidden from or undetected by that creature until after you
Strike. You can use Spring from the Shadows while Burrowing,
Climbing, Flying, or Swimming instead of Striding if you have the
corresponding movement type.
14TH LEVEL
DEFENSIVE ROLL [free-action] FEAT 14
ROGUE
Frequency once per 10 minutes
Trigger A physical attack would reduce you to 0 Hit Points.
Dropping into a roll to disperse the force of the blow, you can
partially evade a lethal attack and stay conscious. You take half
damage from the triggering attack.
INSTANT OPENING [one-action] FEAT 14
CONCENTRATE ROGUE
You distract your opponent with a few choice words or a rude
gesture. Choose a target within 30 feet. It’s off-guard against
your attacks until the end of your next turn. Depending on the
way you describe your distraction, this action gains either the
auditory or visual trait.
LEAVE AN OPENING FEAT 14
ROGUE
When you hit hard enough, you leave an opening so your ally can
jump in on the action. Whenever you critically hit an off-guard

opponent with a melee attack and deal damage, the target triggers
a Reactive Strike reaction from one ally of your choice who has
that reaction, as if the enemy had used a manipulate action.
SENSE THE UNSEEN [reaction] FEAT 14
ROGUE
Trigger You fail a check to Seek.
When you look for foes, you catch the slightest of cues. Even
though you failed at the triggering check, you automatically
sense any undetected creatures in the area where you’re
Seeking, making them merely hidden to you.
STAY DOWN! [reaction] FEAT 14
ROGUE
Prerequisites master in Athletics
Trigger A prone foe within your reach Stands.
You have ways of keeping your foes down. Attempt an Athletics
check against the triggering foe’s Fortitude DC. On a success, the
action is disrupted, causing the creature to remain prone. On a
critical success, the creature also can’t Stand until its next turn.
16TH LEVEL
BLANK SLATE FEAT 16
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Deception
Your deceptions confound even the most powerful magic that
could spy on you. Detection, revelation, and scrying effects pass
right over you, your possessions, and your auras, detecting
nothing unless the detecting effect has a counteract rank of
10 or higher. For example, detect magic would still detect other
magic in the area but not any magic on you, truesight wouldn’t
reveal you, locate or scrying wouldn’t find you, and so on.
CLOUD STEP FEAT 16
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Acrobatics
Using fantastic acrobatic skill, you can walk for brief stretches
across insubstantial surfaces. When you Stride, you can move
across water, air, and solid surfaces that can hold only limited
weight as if they were normal ground. If you Stride over a trap
with a weight-sensitive pressure plate, you don’t trigger it. At
the end of your turn, you sink, fall, break fragile surfaces, or
trigger traps as normal for your current location.
COGNITIVE LOOPHOLE [reaction] FEAT 16
ROGUE
Trigger Your turn ends.
Requirements You are currently affected by a mental effect.
You can find a loophole in a mental effect to temporarily
overcome it. Until the end of your next turn, you ignore a
single mental effect. You can suppress a particular effect using
Cognitive Loophole only once. You can’t use Cognitive Loophole
to suppress an effect you chose to have affect you.
Special You can use this reaction even if the mental effect is
preventing you from using reactions.
DISPELLING SLICE [two-actions] FEAT 16
ROGUE
Your sneak attack slices through the threads binding magic to a
target. Make a Strike against an off-guard creature. If your Strike
deals sneak attack damage, you attempt to counteract a single
spell of your choice active on the target. Your counteract rank is
equal to half your level (rounded up), and your counteract check
modifier is equal to your class DC – 10.
PERFECT DISTRACTION [one-action] FEAT 16
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Deception
You use clever tactics to mislead your foes as you sneak away.
You Sneak while leaving a decoy behind. The decoy acts as
the spell mislead, though you aren’t invisible, just undetected.
You can continue to concentrate to move your decoy, as with
the spell, whether or not you remain hidden throughout the
duration. Once you use Perfect Distraction, you need to spend
10 minutes to set up another decoy before you can use it again.
RECONSTRUCT THE SCENE FEAT 16
CONCENTRATE ROGUE
You spend 1 minute surveying a small location (such as a
single room) to get an impression of events that occurred
there in the last day. This involves moving about the area and
studying footprints, spilled drinks or blood, and so forth. You
get an indistinct mental impression of significant events that
happened there. This gives you clues and details of the past,
including the overall events and their time frame, but it’s not
a perfect record. This also isn’t enough to identify who was
involved in these events if you weren’t already aware the person
was there. As determined by the GM, you also pick out various
seemingly small details that could serve as important clues, like
a memorable weapon someone used for a murder or the type of
cloak someone wore when passing through.
SWIFT ELUSION [reaction] FEAT 16
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Acrobatics
Trigger A foe ends its movement adjacent to you.
Attempt an Acrobatics check against the foe’s Reflex DC. If you
succeed, either Stride to a different space adjacent to the foe or
move the foe to a different space adjacent to you.
18TH LEVEL
IMPLAUSIBLE INFILTRATION [two-actions] FEAT 18
MAGICAL MOVE ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Acrobatics, Quick Squeeze (page 260)
Requirements You are adjacent to a floor or vertical wall.
You find tiny imperfections and somehow fit yourself through
them, possibly moving directly through the wall or floor. Your
movement attempt fails if the wall or floor is made of something
other than wood, plaster, or stone; is thicker than 10 feet; or
contains even a thin layer of metal. If you have a climb Speed,
you can use this ability to attempt to move through a ceiling.

IMPLAUSIBLE PURCHASE FEAT 18
ROGUE
Prerequisites Predictive Purchase
You can use Prescient Planner even if you have already used
it after purchasing goods, and you can Interact to draw the
item as a single action instead of a 2-action activity. In addition,
five times per day, you can use Prescient Planner to pull out a
common consumable item up to 6 levels lower than your level.
POWERFUL SNEAK FEAT 18
ROGUE
You’ve learned to exploit your enemies’ openings. Your sneak
attack damage ignores any immunity or resistance the target
has to precision damage. In addition, when you Sneak, you can
designate one creature you’re undetected by at the end of that
action. On the next attack you make against that creature before
the end of your next turn, any sneak attack die you roll that’s
less than 3 is a 3 instead. This has no benefit if your next attack
against the creature doesn’t deal sneak attack damage, and if you
designate a new creature you lose the benefit on any previous one.
20TH LEVEL
HIDDEN PARAGON [reaction] FEAT 20
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Stealth
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You successfully use Stealth to Hide and become hidden
from all of your current foes, or use Stealth to Sneak and
become undetected to all your current foes.
When you slip out of sight, you disappear. You become invisible
for 1 minute, even if you use a hostile action. Not even revealing
light, see the unseen, or similar effects can reveal you, though
creatures can still use the Seek action to locate you as normal.
IMPOSSIBLE STRIKER FEAT 20
ROGUE
Prerequisites Sly Striker
Nothing can prevent you from making a sneak attack, even if
your opponent can see every blow coming. Instead of dealing
the damage from Sly Striker, you can deal your full sneak attack
damage to a target even if the target isn’t off-guard.
REACTIVE DISTRACTION [reaction] FEAT 20
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Deception, Perfect Distraction
Trigger You would be hit by an attack or targeted by an effect,
or you are within an effect’s area.
Requirements You have Perfect Distraction ready to use.
You reactively switch with your decoy to foil your foe. You
use Perfect Distraction, even if you were observed, as long as
you end the movement of your Sneak while concealed or in a
location with cover or greater cover. Your decoy is targeted by
the attack or effect instead of you. In the case of an area effect,
if your Sneak doesn’t move you out of the area, both you and the
decoy are targeted by the effect.
WITCH
You command powerful magic, not through study or devotion, but as an agent
for an otherworldly patron that even you don’t entirely understand. This entity
might be a covert divinity, a powerful fey, an ancient spirit, or any other mighty
supernatural being—but its nature is likely as much a mystery to you as it is to others.
Through a special familiar, your patron grants you versatile spells and powerful hexes to use
as you see fit, though you’re never certain if you’re merely serving your patron’s larger plan.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Intelligence
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to Intelligence.
HIT POINTS
6 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in one skill determined by your
patron
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 3 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Untrained in all armor
Trained in unarmored defense
SPELLS
Trained in spell attack modifier
Trained in spell DC
CLASS DC
Trained in witch class DC
During combat encounters...
You cast spells to change the course of battle. You use magical hexes to
hamper enemies and aid allies, while leveraging more powerful spells to
control the battlefield, heal, or harm, aided by your extraordinary familiar,
brewed potions, and magical items.
During social encounters...
You provide knowledge on numerous topics, including a variety of
magical matters, and you might call upon your patron’s magic to charm or
deceive others.
While exploring...
You remain alert for magical traps and treasures, employing a clever array of
spells to overcome obstacles that stand in your way. Your familiar might aid
you through its own considerable set of exceptional abilities.
In downtime...
You brew potions, craft other magical items, or hunt for new spells for your
familiar to learn. You might try to learn more about your patron, their aims,
or your own powers, and you might seek out the company of other witches
for collaboration or community.
You might...
• Strive to learn more about your patron or familiar, your patron’s goals,
why they chose to empower you, and how you fit into their plans.
• Seek out new sources of magic, like scrolls and spellbooks, to supplement
the spells your patron provides.
• View your familiar as a steadfast ally, a dear friend, or a necessary
nuisance, depending on its personality.
Others probably...
• Wonder about the nature of your patron and the source of your
magic, worrying you’ll turn on them or that you unknowingly serve a
foul power).
• Appreciate your ability to aid them with magic, whether you do so by
helping them directly or by hampering their adversaries.
• Take care not to offend you, fearful that you’ll place a malicious hex on
them if you’re angered.
WITCH ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1 Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, patron, familiar, witch
spellcasting, hexes
2 Skill feat, witch feat
3 2nd-rank spells, general feat, skill increase
4 Skill feat, witch feat
5 3rd-rank spells, attribute boosts, ancestry feat,
magical fortitude, skill increase
6 Familiar ability, skill feat, witch feat
7 4th-rank spells, expert spellcaster, general feat,
skill increase
8 Skill feat, witch feat
9 5th-rank spells, ancestry feat, reflex expertise,
skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, skill feat, witch feat
11 6th-rank spells, general feat, perception
expertise, skill increase, weapon expertise
12 Familiar ability, skill feat, witch feat
13 7th-rank spells, ancestry feat, defensive robes,
skill increase, weapon specialization
14 Skill feat, witch feat
15 8th-rank spells, attribute boosts, general feat,
master spellcaster, skill increase
16 Skill feat, witch feat
17 9th-rank spells, ancestry feat, skill increase,
will of the pupil
18 Familiar ability, skill feat, witch feat
19 General feat, legendary spellcaster, patron’s
gift, skill increase
20 Attribute boosts, skill feat, witch feat
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a witch. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the requisite levels next to their names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background. These are described in Chapter 2.
Attribute Boosts
In addition to what you get from your class at
1st level, you have four free boosts to different
attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four
free boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute
modifier is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to
increase it; you get a partial boost, and must boost that
attribute again at a later level to increase it by 1.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These are noted at the
start of this class.

Patron
You weren’t born with the power to cast spells, nor
have you spent years dedicated to worship, study, or
uncovering mystical secrets. Your magic instead has
been gifted to you by a potent being, one who knows
that by empowering you so, you’ll further the being’s
agenda in the world, whatever it may be. This entity is
typically mysterious and distant, revealing little of their
identity and motivations. They make their will known to
you in abstract signs such as omens, dreams, or similar
subtleties rather than words.
Rather than interacting with you directly, your patron
works through a familiar—a mystical creature that
teaches you, serves as the conduit for your patron’s
magic, and maybe even keeps an eye on you to ensure
you’re furthering your patron’s nebulous ends.
At 1st level, choose your patron, which determines
your spellcasting tradition and grants you the skill for
that tradition of magic, your first witch’s lesson and a
unique familiar ability. The patrons presented in this
book are found on page 183.
Witch Spellcasting
Using your familiar as a conduit, your patron provides
you the power to cast spells. You are a spellcaster, and
you can cast spells of your patron’s tradition using
the Cast a Spell activity. As a witch, when you cast
spells, your incantations might rhyme, your gestures
might be as simple as an ominous pointing finger or a
complex folk sign, and your familiar might even echo
your words or movements slightly as your patron’s
magic surges.
At 1st level, you can prepare up to two 1st-rank spells
and five cantrips each morning from the spells your
familiar knows (see page 181). Prepared spells remain
available to you until you cast them or until you prepare
your spells again. The number of spells you can prepare
each day is called your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a witch, the number of
spells you can prepare each day increases, as does the
highest rank of spell you can cast, as shown in the Witch
Spells per Day table on page 181.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack
to see how effective they are, or have your enemies roll
against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving
throw). Since your key attribute is Intelligence, your
spell attack modifier and spell DC use your Intelligence
modifier. Details on calculating these statistics appear on
page 403.
Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd-rank and higher, you can
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-rank spells.
This increases the spell’s rank, heightening it to match
the spell slot. Many spells have specific improvements
when they are heightened to certain ranks.
WITCH SPELLS PER DAY
Your Spell Rank
Level Cantrips 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 10th
1 5 2 — — — — — — — — —
2 5 3 — — — — — — — — —
3 5 3 2 — — — — — — — —
4 5 3 3 — — — — — — — —
5 5 3 3 2 — — — — — — —
6 5 3 3 3 — — — — — — —
7 5 3 3 3 2 — — — — — —
8 5 3 3 3 3 — — — — — —
9 5 3 3 3 3 2 — — — — —
10 5 3 3 3 3 3 — — — — —
11 5 3 3 3 3 3 2 — — — —
12 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 — — — —
13 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 — — —
14 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 — — —
15 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 — —
16 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 — —
17 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 —
18 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 —
19 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 1*
20 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 1*
* The patron’s gift class feature gives you a 10th-rank spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots.
Cantrips
Some of your spells are cantrips. A cantrip is a special
type of spell that doesn’t use spell slots. You can cast a
cantrip at will, any number of times per day. A cantrip
is always automatically heightened to half your level
rounded up—this is usually equal to the highest rank
of witch spell slot you have. For example, as a 1st-level

witch, your cantrips are 1st-rank spells, and as a 5th-
level witch, your cantrips are 3rd-rank spells.

Familiar
Your patron has sent you a familiar, a mystical creature
that teaches you magic and facilitates your spells.
This familiar follows the rules beginning on page 212,
though as it’s a direct conduit between you and your
patron, it’s more powerful than typical familiars. Your
familiar gains two additional familiar abilities: one of
these is a unique ability based on your patron and is
always selected, and the other is an additional familiar
ability that can be selected daily as normal. Your
familiar gains another extra ability at 6th, 12th, and
18th levels.
Spells: Your familiar is the source and repository of
the spells your patron has bestowed upon you, and you
must commune with your familiar to prepare your spells
each day using your witch spellcasting. Your familiar
starts off knowing 10 cantrips, five 1st-rank spells, and
one additional spell determined by your patron’s initial
lesson. You choose these spells from the common spells
of the tradition determined by your patron or from other
spells of that tradition you gain access to.

Each time you gain a level, your patron teaches your
familiar two new spells of any rank for which you have
spell slots, chosen from common spells of your tradition
or others you gain access to. Feats can also grant your
familiar additional spells.
Learning Spells: Your familiar can learn new spells
independently of your patron. It can learn any spell
on your tradition’s spell list by physically consuming a
written version of that spell over the course of 1 hour.
This can be a scroll of that spell, or you can prepare
a written version using the Learn a Spell exploration
activity. You and your familiar can use the Learn a Spell
activity to teach your familiar a spell from another
witch’s familiar. Both familiars must be present for
the entirety of the activity, the spell must be on your
spellcasting tradition’s spell list, and you must pay the
usual cost for that activity, typically in the form of an
offering to the other familiar’s patron. You can’t prepare
spells from another witch’s familiar.
Undying: If your familiar dies, your patron replaces it
during your next daily preparations. The new familiar
might be a duplicate or reincarnation of your former
familiar or a new entity altogether, but it knows the
same spells your former familiar knew regardless.
Your familiar’s death doesn’t affect any spells you have
already prepared.
Hex Spells
As a favored agent of your patron, you can invoke their
power for a more direct magical intervention. A hex is
a spell shaped by your patron and sent to you through
your familiar, rather than an ability you use directly.
Your patron expects you to advance its interests and
does not take kindly to repeated requests for aid; as
such, you can use only one hex each turn, and any
attempts to use a second hex on that turn fail and the
actions are lost.
Hex spells are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus
Point to cast a focus spell, and you start with a focus
pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool during
your daily preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus
Point by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity
to commune with your familiar.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half
your level rounded up, much like cantrips. Focus spells
don’t require spell slots, and you can’t cast them using

spell slots. Certain feats give you more focus spells.
The maximum Focus Points your focus pool can hold
is equal to the number of focus spells you have, but it
can never be more than 3 points. The full rules for focus
spells appear in on page 298.
You learn your choice of the patron’s puppet hex
(page 385) or phase familiar hex (page 385), which let
you command your familiar or defend it from harm,
respectively. You learn most other hexes from witch
lessons (page 185).
Hex Cantrips
Hex cantrips are special hexes that don’t cost Focus
Points, so you can cast them as often as you like, though
you can still use only one hex each round. Hex cantrips
are in addition to the cantrips you choose with
witch spellcasting and aren’t counted toward
your prepared cantrips.
You gain a hex cantrip determined by
your choice of patron (page 183).
Skill Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter,
you gain a skill feat. You must be trained or
better in the corresponding skill to select a
skill feat.
Witch Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels
thereafter, you gain a witch class feat.
These begin on page 186.
General Feats 3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter,
you gain a general feat. General feats are
listed in Chapter 5.
Skill Increases 3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels
thereafter, you gain a skill increase. You
can use this increase either to increase
your proficiency rank to trained in one
skill you’re untrained in, or to increase
your proficiency rank in one skill in which you’re
already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you’re
already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in
which you’re already a master.
Ancestry Feats 5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with,
you gain an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels
thereafter. The list of ancestry feats available to you can
be found in your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Magical Fortitude 5th
Your patron’s power boosts your physical resiliency. Your
proficiency rank for Fortitude saves increases to expert.
Expert Spellcaster 7th
You’ve learned to better control the power your patron
has granted you. Your proficiency ranks for spell attack
modifier and spell DC increase to expert.
Reflex Expertise 9th
Your reflexes are lightning fast, helping you avoid danger.
Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to expert.
Perception Expertise 11th
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
Weapon Expertise 11th
Through sheer experience, you’ve improved your
technique with your weapons. Your proficiency ranks for
simple weapons and unarmed attacks increase to expert.
Defensive Robes 13th
The flow of magic through your spellcasting and your
defensive training combine to help you get out of the way
before an attack. Your proficiency rank in unarmored
defense increases to expert.
Weapon Specialization 13th
You can inflict greater injuries with the weapons you
know. You deal 2 additional damage with weapons
and unarmed attacks in which you are an expert.
This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master and 4 if
you’re legendary.
Master Spellcaster 15th
You’ve achieved mastery over your patron’s magic. Your
proficiency ranks for spell attack modifier and spell DC
increase to master.
Will of the Pupil 17th
Communion with your familiar has steeled your mental
fortitude. Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases
to master. When you roll a success on a Will save, you
get a critical success instead.
Legendary Spellcaster 19th
You’ve perfected your command of the magic your
patron provides. Your proficiency ranks for spell attack
modifier and spell DC increase to legendary.
Patron’s Gift 19th
Your patron grants you the power to command
incredible works of magic. You gain a single 10th-rank
spell slot and can prepare a spell in that slot using witch
spellcasting. Unlike with other spell slots, you can’t use

10th-rank slots with abilities that give you more spell
slots or that let you cast spells without expending spell
slots. You don’t gain more 10th-rank spells as you level
up, but you can take the Patron’s Truth feat (page 191)
to gain a second slot.
KEY TERMS

You’ll see these key terms in many witch class features.
Hex: A hex is a spell caused by your patron’s direct
attention and intervention. Your patron does not take well
to being disturbed repeatedly, so you can cast only one
spell that has the hex trait each turn; attempts to use a
second automatically fail and usually cause your familiar
to hiss in displeasure as your patron rejects your call.
Spellshape: Actions with the spellshape trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come
from spellshape feats. You must use a spellshape action
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of
the spellshape action. Any additional effects added by a
spellshape action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the
spellshape action itself.
Patrons
When your patron first makes contact, they usually
reveal little more of themself than glimpses or specific
manifestations—you might see eyes from the shadows
of the forest or hear a wordless voice echoing across the
frozen tundra before your familiar makes itself known.
Your patron’s true identity might be a powerful hag, a
fey lord, a deity or demigod, an archdevil, or a similarly
powerful entity, or perhaps multiple such figures working
in tandem, but that identity is for you to attempt to
discover as you learn more of your patron’s lessons. Some
patrons are multifaceted, appearing in different guises,
and granting different powers to different witches. In
some cases, the witch may know of their patron’s identity,
but have some other aspect shrouded in uncertainty;
they might know their patron’s name but not motive, or
perhaps even if they know the patron’s identity, they have
been cursed to never reveal it to others.
Your patron determines the following.
Spell List You use this magical tradition and spell list; Patron
Skill You become trained in the skill associated with your
patron’s magical tradition.
Initial Lesson This is the first lesson your patron teaches you
and is unique to your patron.
Familiar Ability One of your familiar’s two bonus abilities is
always the one listed here, a mark of your patron’s indelible
influence. The benefit can occur only once per round when
you Cast or Sustain a hex, and you can choose whether it
occurs before or after the effects of Casting or Sustaining
the hex.
WITCH FEATS BY NAME
Feat Level
Basic Lesson 2
Cackle 1
Cantrip Expansion 2
Cauldron 1
Ceremonial Knife 6
Conceal Spell 2
Counterspell 1
Coven Spell 12
Double, Double 10
Effortless Concentration 16
Enhanced Familiar 2
Familiar’s Language 2
Greater Lesson 6
Hex Focus 12
Hex Master 20
Incredible Familiar 8
Major Lesson 10
Murksight 8
Patron’s Claim 18

Patron’s Presence 14
Patron’s Truth 20
Quickened Casting 10
Reach Spell 1
Reflect Spell 14
Rites of Convocation 4
Rites of Transfiguration 14
Siphon Power 16
Spirit Familiar 8
Split Hex 18
Steady Spellcasting 6
Stitched Familiar 8
Sympathetic Strike 4
Widen Spell 1
Witch’s Armaments 1
Witch’s Bottle 8
Witch’s Broom 12
Witch’s Charge 6
Witch’s Communion 10
Witch’s Hut 20
Faith’s Flamekeeper
Your patron contacted you in a moment your willpower
was close to sputtering out. Their reassuring presence
was like breath and kindling bringing an ember back
aflame, their magic giving you the strength to carry on
and bring others to your cause. Your patron is likely a
divine being like an angel or aeon acting covertly, though
the possibility exists they might be a more sinister entity,
using you to unknown ends.
Spell List divine; Patron Skill Religion
Lesson of Fervor’s Grasp Your patron has taught you that
nothing can seize the heart like faith, whether used to
inspire or direct. You gain the stoke the heart hex cantrip
and your familiar learns command.
Familiar of Restored Spirit Your familiar is pleasantly warm
and soft, seeming to wash away worries with its mere
presence. When you Cast or Sustain a hex, one willing
creature within 15 feet of your familiar gains temporary Hit
Points equal to 2 + half your level, which last until the start
of your next turn.
The Inscribed One
No words passed your patron’s lips in the moment you
met; instead, words and glyphs danced across their skin
while symbols and numbers swam in the depths of their
eyes, spelling out their will in a torrent of words and
wisdom. Your patron might be a powerful archmage,
or even one of their abandoned artifacts, searching for
a successor.
Spell List arcane; Patron Skill Arcana
Lesson of Glyph’s Supremacy Your patron teaches that the
written word can accomplish so much more than it seems.
You gain the discern secrets hex and your familiar learns
runic weapon.

Familiar of Flowing Script Your familiar is covered in a pattern
that looks similar to letters in an unknown language, one that
seems to draw attention even as it eludes understanding.
When you Cast or Sustain a hex, the letters begin to rapidly
change, causing a distraction. Until the start of your next
turn, your familiar can provide flanking for you and your
allies as though it were able to attack and had a reach of 5
feet; this is a visual effect.
The Resentment
A single feeling radiated from your patron in the
moment you met them, as palpable as heat from a
fire: the desire to see every tall poppy felled and every
proud nail hammered down, whether to righteously
bring justice for small folk or the base urge to see the
powerful defeated. Your patron is likely far from the
upper echelons of its kind, such as a hag ousted from its
coven or a quasi-divinity or a lower-rank demon. This
leaves it only subtler and weaker tools to see its ends
met: curses, hexes, and you.
Spell List occult; Patron Skill Occultism
Lesson of Strength’s Impermanence Your patron has taught
you that power can be taken much more easily that it can
be built. You gain the evil eye hex cantrip and your familiar
learns enfeeble.
Familiar of Ongoing Misery Your familiar seems hostile to all
creatures other than you, hissing at them if they get too
near. When you Cast or Sustain a hex, your familiar can
curse a creature within 15 feet of it, prolonging the duration
of any negative conditions affecting it by 1 round. This is
a curse effect. This prolongs only conditions with a timed
duration (such as “1 round” or “until the end of your next
turn”) and doesn’t prevent conditions from being removed
by other means.
Silence in Snow
Bitter cold heralded your patron’s appearance, in the
depths of the winter solstice or on a frozen peak at the
end of the world. Your patron might be a winter hag, ice
yai, or other spirit of the cold, but one thing is clear as
ice—their power is not to be underestimated.
Spell List primal; Patron Skill Nature
Lesson of Winter’s Chill Your patron taught you the power of
winter firsthand by subjecting you to frost and snow. You
learn the clinging ice hex cantrip and your familiar learns
gust of wind.
Familiar of Freezing Rime Your familiar is cold to the touch, its
breath always visible. When you Cast or Sustain a hex, you
can cause ice to form in a 5-foot burst centered on a square
of your familiar’s space. Those squares are difficult terrain
until the start of your next turn.
Spinner of Threads
You met your patron in a memory of an encounter yet to
come or a premonition of something long since passed,
as they untangled and re-spun the tapestry of time and
fate. Was your patron a norn? A herald of a deity like
Pharasma, Alseta, or Grandmother Spider? Could it
even be a single individual appearing at three or more
points in its timeline—multiple versions of the same
being, parallel threads converging on a single moment?
Spell List occult; Patron Skill Occultism
Lesson of Fate’s Vicissitudes Your patron’s harsh lesson is
that fate spares no one, rising and falling in turn for all. You
gain the nudge fate hex cantrip and your familiar learns
sure strike.
Familiar of Balanced Luck Your familiar has a spot on its body
that looks like a good luck charm or a bad omen, depending
on the angle. When you Cast or Sustain a hex, one creature
within 15 feet of your familiar gets your choice of either a +1
status bonus to its AC or a –1 status penalty to its AC until
the start of your next turn.
Starless Shadow
Your patron first contacted you at the witching hour,
as your body lay paralyzed by sleep while your mind
had yet to escape the waking world. Your patron might
be a creature of the Netherworld or a long-forgotten
spirit of twilight—all you remember of them are
haunting eyes of moonlight, offering you power from
the darkness.
Spell List occult; Patron Skill Occultism
Lesson of Night’s Terrors Your patron taught you that the
darkness can hide all manner of things best left unseen.
You gain the shroud of night hex cantrip, and your familiar
learns fear.
Familiar of Stalking Night Your familiar is dark of fur or
feather, and light seems to disappear into it. When you Cast
or Sustain a hex, and your familiar is adjacent to an enemy
to which it’s concealed, hidden, or undetected, the enemy
becomes frightened 1.

Wilding Steward
When your patron appeared before you, they moved with
the grace and ferocity of the wilderness, their voice the
creaking of trees and the sound of hoof against unspoiled
earth. They might have been a dryad queen or a primeval
beast, but it seemed all of nature was theirs to defend.
Spell List primal; Patron Skill Nature
Lesson of Wild Speech Your patron has taught you the
complexities of nonverbal speech, letting you influence and
call animals and plants to you. You gain the wilding word
hex cantrip and your familiar learns your choice of summon
animal or summon plant or fungus.
Familiar of Keen Senses Your familiar has glinting eyes,
twitching ears, or some other sign of a beast’s powerful
senses. When you Cast or Sustain a hex, your familiar
gains your choice of an imprecise scent, tremorsense, or
wavesense, with a range of 60 feet until the start of your
next turn, and it can immediately Point Out as a free action.
Witch Lessons
A witch’s knowledge takes the form of lessons, which you
can learn by selecting feats like Basic Lesson (page 186) or
Greater Lesson (page 188). Each lesson grants you a hex
and teaches your familiar a new spell, adding it to the spells
you can prepare using your witch spellcasting. You gain
this spell even if it’s not on your tradition’s spell list.
Basic Lessons
Lesson of Dreams: Dreams can be a window to greater
insights. You gain the veil of dreams hex, and your
familiar learns sleep.
Lesson of Elements: Natural disasters and inclement
weather hold more power than the mightiest creature.
You gain the elemental betrayal hex. Your familiar learns
your choice of breathe fire, gust of wind, hydraulic push,
or pummeling rubble.
Lesson of Life: Life can be shared. You gain the life
boost hex, and your familiar learns spirit link.
Lesson of Protection: An ounce of protection is worth
a pound of cure. You gain the blood ward hex; your
familiar learns mystic armor.
Lesson of Vengeance: Suffer not even the smallest
slights. You gain the needle of vengeance hex, and your
familiar learns phantom pain.
Greater Lessons
Lesson of Mischief: Nothing’s wrong with some mischief,
now and then. You gain the deceiver’s cloak hex, and
your familiar learns mad monkeys.
Lesson of Shadow: A shadow is far from empty—it
contains something of the person who casts it. You gain
the malicious shadow hex, and your familiar learns
chilling darkness.
Lesson of Snow: Emulate snow, for it can snuff out
life despite its gentleness. You gain the personal blizzard
hex, and your familiar learns wall of wind.
Major Lessons
Lesson of Death: Death is final, yet not as inescapable as
it may seem. You gain the curse of death hex, and your
familiar learns raise dead.
Lesson of Renewal: Entropy comes for all, but it can
be wound back through effort. You gain the restorative
moment hex, and your familiar learns field of life.
Witch Feats
At each level that you gain a witch feat, you can select one
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites
before taking the feat.
1ST LEVEL
CACKLE FEAT 1
WITCH
Your patron’s power fills you with confidence, letting you
sustain a magical working even as a quick burst of laughter
leaves your lips. You learn the cackle hex.
CAULDRON FEAT 1
WITCH
You can brew magic in your cauldron, creating useful magical
concoctions. You can use the Craft activity to create oils and
potions. You immediately gain the formulas for four common
1st-level oils or potions. At 4th level and every 2 levels beyond
that, you gain the formula for a common oil or potion of that
level or lower (a 4th-level potion if you’re 4th level, a 6th-level
potion if you’re 6th level, and so on). If you have a familiar, you
can have your familiar learn these formulas rather than storing
them in a formula book. Your familiar can learn new formulas
in the same way it learns new spells, and these formulas are
transferred from a slain familiar to a new familiar in the same
way spells are.
During your daily preparations, you can create one
temporary oil or potion using a formula you know. If you have
master proficiency in spell DC, you can create a batch of two
temporary oils or potions during your daily preparations, and
if you have legendary proficiency, you can create a batch of
three. Any items you create this way become inert bottles of
liquid the next time you make your daily preparations, and any
remaining effects of the temporary items end. A temporary oil
or potion has no value.
COUNTERSPELL [reaction] FEAT 1
WITCH
Trigger A creature Casts a Spell that you have prepared.
When a foe Casts a Spell and you can see its manifestations,
you can use your magic to disrupt it. You expend a prepared
spell to counter the triggering creature’s casting of that same
spell. You lose your spell slot as if you had cast the triggering
spell. You then attempt to counteract the triggering spell
(page 431).
Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition of
spells you cast (arcane, divine, primal, or occult).

REACH SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WITCH
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s
range by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if
the spell normally has a range of touch, you extend its range
to 30 feet.
WIDEN SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE WITCH
You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to affect a
wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that has
an area of a burst, cone, or line and doesn’t have a duration,
increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the radius of a
burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet (a burst
with a smaller radius isn’t affected). Add 5 feet to the length of
a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or smaller, and add
10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
WITCH’S ARMAMENTS FEAT 1
WITCH
Your patron’s power changes your body to ensure you
are never defenseless. You gain one of the following
unarmed attacks.
• Eldritch Nails Your nails are supernaturally long and
sharp. You gain a nails unarmed attack that deals 1d6
slashing damage, is in the brawling group, and has the
agile and unarmed traits.
• Iron Teeth With a click of your jaw, your teeth transform
into long metallic points. You gain a jaws unarmed
attack that deals 1d8 piercing damage and is in the
brawling group.
• Living Hair You can instantly grow or shrink your hair,
eyebrows, beard, or mustache by up to several feet and
manipulate your hair for use as a weapon, though your
control isn’t fine enough for more dexterous tasks. You
gain a hair unarmed attack that deals 1d4 bludgeoning
damage; is in the brawling group; and has the agile,
disarm, finesse, trip, and unarmed traits.
Special You can take this feat more than once, gaining a
different unarmed attack each time.
2ND LEVEL
BASIC LESSON FEAT 2
WITCH
Your patron grants you a special lesson, revealing a hidden
facet of its nature. Choose a basic lesson from the list on page
185. You gain its associated hex, and your familiar learns the
associated spell.
CANTRIP EXPANSION FEAT 2
WITCH
Your patron recognizes your need for flexibility and versatility,
and grants you the power to prepare a wider range of simple
spells. You can prepare two additional cantrips each day.
CONCEAL SPELL [one-action] FEAT 2
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WITCH
Through sheer mental effort, you can simplify the incantations
and gestures needed to spellcast, leaving them barely
noticeable. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell, the spell
gains the subtle trait, hiding the shining runes, sparks of magic,
and other manifestations that would usually give away your
spellcasting. The trait hides only the spell’s spellcasting actions
and manifestations, not its effects, so an observer might still see
a ray streak out from you or see you vanish into thin air.
ENHANCED FAMILIAR FEAT 2
WITCH
Prerequisites a familiar
You infuse your familiar with additional magical energy. You can
select four familiar or master abilities each day instead of two.
Special Add the bonus familiar abilities you gain for being a
witch to this amount.
FAMILIAR’S LANGUAGE FEAT 2
WITCH
Prerequisites a familiar
You’ve learned to speak with your familiar and other creatures
like it. You can ask questions of, receive answers from, and
use the Diplomacy skill with creatures of the same family of
animals as your familiar. For example, if your familiar were a

cat, you could gain the effects of speak with animals for any
felines (including leopards, lions, and tigers, among others).
This ability doesn’t make them more friendly than normal.
If your familiar ever changes to a different creature, you
can’t use this ability for 1 week while you absorb your new
familiar’s language.
Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition of
spells you cast (arcane, divine, occult, or primal).
4TH LEVEL
RITES OF CONVOCATION FEAT 4
WITCH
Your patron grants you the power to summon other creatures
to aid you. Choose one summon spell (such as summon animal,
summon construct, and so forth) that appears on the spell
list of your spellcasting tradition. You can spend 10 minutes
in communion with your familiar to replace one spell you’ve
prepared in one of your witch spell slots with the spell you
chose, heightened to the same rank. The spell you replaced
must be of at least the summon spell’s minimum spell rank.
SYMPATHETIC STRIKE [one-action] FEAT 4
WITCH
Prerequisites Witch’s Armaments
Frequency once per round 
You collect your patron’s magic into one of your witch
armaments, causing them to shine with runes, light, or another
signifier of your patron. Make an unarmed Strike with one with
your witch’s armaments. If you hit, you establish a sympathetic
link with the target, making it easier for your patron to affect
them. Until the beginning of your next turn, the target takes a
–1 circumstance penalty to its saves against your hexes, or a –2
penalty if the triggering Strike was a critical hit.
Sample Witch
HEDGE WITCH

With an eccentric personality and unconventional magic,
you and your familiar support your allies and undermine
your enemies.

Attributes

Intelligence fuels your spells. Dexterity and Constitution
provide solid defenses, while Charisma can help you
influence people.

Skills
Crafting, Diplomacy, Occultism, Society
Patron
Spinner of Threads

Lessons

Basic: protection; greater: mischief; major: renewal

Feats

Cauldron (1st), Basic Lesson (2nd), Greater Lesson (6th),
Witch’s Bottle (8th), Major Lesson (10th), Hex Focus (12th)
6TH LEVEL
CEREMONIAL KNIFE FEAT 6
WITCH
You have prepared a special knife to direct energies when
spellcasting. During your daily preparations, you and your
familiar can perform a short ritual over a weapon in the knife
group—typically a dagger. This causes the knife to function as
a magic wand, containing any one 1st-rank spell your familiar
knows. You, and only you, can Activate the knife to Cast the
Spell within it, as normal for a wand (GM Core 282). You can
attempt to overcharge the knife, and this can break or destroy
the knife as normal.
At 8th level, and every 2 levels thereafter, the maximum
rank of spell your ceremonial knife can hold increases by 1.
GREATER LESSON FEAT 6
WITCH
Your patron grants you greater knowledge. Choose a greater or
basic lesson from the list on page 185. You gain its associated
hex, and your familiar learns the associated spell.
STEADY SPELLCASTING FEAT 6
WITCH
Confident in your technique, you don’t easily lose your
concentration when you Cast a Spell. If another creature’s
reaction would disrupt your spellcasting action, attempt a DC
15 flat check. If you succeed, your action isn’t disrupted.
WITCH’S CHARGE FEAT 6
DETECTION WITCH
You forge a magical link with another creature, granting you
awareness of that creature’s condition and creating a conduit
for spellcasting. During your daily preparations, you can
designate one willing creature as your charge. You are always
aware of your charge’s direction from you, its distance from
you, and any conditions affecting it. In addition, you can cast
spells with a range of touch on your charge from a range of 30
feet. These effects persist until your next daily preparations.
Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition of
spells you cast (arcane, divine, occult, or primal).
8TH LEVEL
INCREDIBLE FAMILIAR FEAT 8
WITCH
Prerequisites Enhanced Familiar
Your familiar is imbued with even more magic than other
familiars. You can select a base of six familiar or master
abilities each day, instead of four.
Special Add the bonus familiar abilities you gain for being a
witch to this amount.
MURKSIGHT FEAT 8
WITCH
Your vision pierces through non-magical fog, mist, rain, and
snow. You don’t take circumstance penalties to ranged attacks
or Perception checks caused by non-magical precipitation, and
your targeted attacks don’t require a flat check to succeed
against a target concealed only by such effects.
SPIRIT FAMILIAR FEAT 8
WITCH
Prerequisites divine or occult patron
Your familiar can subsume its body to become pure spirit. Your
familiar gains the Shed Spirit activity.
Shed Spirit [two-actions] (spirit) Frequency once per 10 minutes;
Effect Your familiar’s spirit exits its body, leaving its empty
shell behind, before flying at an enemy within 20 feet and
dealing 6d6 spirit damage, with a basic Will save against
your spell DC. If the familiar dealt damage, it then flies to an
ally within 30 feet of the enemy, restoring Hit Points equal
to half the damage dealt. Your familiar then re-forms in its
original square. At 9th level, and every 2 levels thereafter,
the attack deals an additional 2d6 damage.
STITCHED FAMILIAR FEAT 8
WITCH
Prerequisites arcane or primal patron
Your familiar can shed its material form, becoming a
mass of animated magic. Your familiar gains the Stitching
Strike activity.
Stitching Strike [two-actions] Frequency once per 10 minutes; Effect
Your familiar unravels into magical fibers that encompass
an enemy within 30 feet and deal 6d6 slashing damage,
with a basic Reflex save against your spell DC. On a failure,
the target is also immobilized for 1 round or until it Escapes
against your spell DC. Your familiar then re-forms in its
original square. At 9th level, and every 2 levels thereafter,
the attack deals an additional 2d6 damage.
WITCH’S BOTTLE FEAT 8
WITCH
Prerequisites Cauldron
You spend 10 minutes and 1 Focus Point brewing a special
potion containing the power of one of your hexes that targets
a creature. A creature that consumes this potion is targeted
by the hex. If the hex has a sustained duration and you have
cackle (page 384), you can cast cackle into the bottle just
before you seal it. If you do, the hex’s duration is extended
as if you had cast cackle the round after the hex was cast
(typically this extends the duration by 1 round). Your cackling
laugh sounds out when the potion is unsealed.

Any potion you create this way loses its power the next
time you make your daily preparations. While the potion is in
your possession, you can render it inert using a single action
that has the concentrate trait. You can’t regain the Focus Point
you spent to create the potion (or the Focus Point you spent
to cast cackle) until the potion is consumed or loses its magic.
10TH LEVEL
DOUBLE, DOUBLE FEAT 10
WITCH
Prerequisites Cauldron
For each temporary oil or potion you brew during your daily
preparations, you brew two copies of it. This allows you to brew
two temporary oils or potions each day, four if you have master
proficiency in spell DC, or six if you have legendary proficiency.
MAJOR LESSON FEAT 10
WITCH
Your patron grants you even greater secrets. Choose a major,
greater, or basic lesson from the list on page 185. You gain its
associated hex, and your familiar learns the associated spell.
Special You can select this feat a second time if you’re 14th
level or higher, and a third time if you’re 18th level or higher.
Choose a different lesson each time.
QUICKENED CASTING [free-action] FEAT 10
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WITCH
Frequency once per day
You accelerate your spellcasting. If your next action is to cast
a witch cantrip or a witch spell that is at least 2 ranks lower
than the highest-rank witch spell slot you have, reduce the
number of actions to cast it by 1 (minimum 1 action).
WITCH’S COMMUNION FEAT 10
WITCH
Prerequisites Witch’s Charge
You can keep watch over multiple charges. Each day during
your preparations, you can designate a number of charges
equal to your Intelligence modifier instead of just one.
12TH LEVEL
COVEN SPELL [reaction] FEAT 12
SPELLSHAPE WITCH
Trigger An ally within 30 feet Casts a Spell.
You rhyme with your ally’s incantations or echo their movements,
linking your magic to empower their spell in one of two ways:
• If their spell deals damage and doesn’t have a duration, you
grant that spell a status bonus to damage equal to its rank.
• If their spell doesn’t have a spellshape effect applied to
it, apply the effects of any one spellshape feat you know
to the spell. The spellshape feat must be one that can be
applied to the triggering spell, and you must be able to
use it (for instance, if the spellshape feat is usable only a
limited number of times per day).
Sample Witch
ICE WITCH

With a heart of ice, perhaps inherited from your patron,
you command the chill winds and biting cold of winter.

Attributes

Intelligence is crucial for your spells. Wisdom makes you
perceptive and supports your knowledge of the wild.
Dexterity and Constitution round out your defenses.

Skills
Crafting, Deception, Nature, Survival
Patron

Silence in Snow

Lessons
Basic: elements; greater: snow; major: death
Feats

Cackle (1st), Basic Lesson (2nd), Greater Lesson (6th),
Murksight (8th), Major Lesson (10th), Hex Focus (12th)
HEX FOCUS FEAT 12
WITCH
Your patron’s teachings have allowed you to achieve a
deeper focus. Whenever you Refocus, completely refill your
focus pool.
WITCH’S BROOM FEAT 12
WITCH
A broom is the only steed you need to fly through the night
sky. During your daily preparations, you can anoint a single
broom, staff, polearm, or similarly shaped object with a flying
ointment made of special herbs and oils. Until the next time
you make your daily preparations, it gains the magical trait,
and you can ride on it while you’re holding it with at least 1
hand. It moves at a fly Speed of 20 feet. The broom takes a
–10-foot penalty to its Speed if laden with more than 20 Bulk,
and crashes to the ground if it carries more than 30 Bulk. The
broom can’t be controlled by anyone but you. If you anoint a
weapon or other held item, you can’t ride the broom and wield
it at the same time.
You can Craft your broomstick into a flying broomstick
(GM Core 274) as though you had the formula for that item.
If you anoint an item that’s already a flying broomstick, the
broom gains a +10-foot status bonus to its Speed and you can
choose whether it works for anyone or only you.
14TH LEVEL
REFLECT SPELL FEAT 14
WITCH
Prerequisites Counterspell
When you successfully use Counterspell to counteract a spell
that affects targeted creatures or an area, you can turn that
spell’s effect back on its caster. When reflected, the spell
affects only the original caster, even if it’s an area spell or it
would normally affect more than one creature. The original
caster can attempt a save and use other defenses against the
reflected spell as normal.
RITES OF TRANSFIGURATION FEAT 14
WITCH
You can adapt your patron’s power to transform other
creatures into forms more befitting their behavior or your
whims. Your familiar learns cursed metamorphosis, even if
cursed metamorphosis isn’t on your tradition’s spell list. By
spending 10 minutes in communion with your familiar, you
can replace one spell of 6th-rank or higher you’ve prepared
in one of your witch spell slots with a cursed metamorphosis
spell of the same rank.
PATRON’S PRESENCE FEAT 14
WITCH
Your patron can direct its attention through your familiar, and
its mere presence becomes an ominous weight on the minds
of other beings to distract them and blot out their magic. Your
familiar gains the following activity.
Patron’s Presence[two-actions] (aura) Frequency once per hour; Effect
A palpable weight extends from your familiar in a 15-foot
emanation. Enemies who enter or start their turn within the
aura must succeed at a Will save against your spell DC or
become stupefied 2 as long as they remain within the aura,
or stupefied 3 on a critical failure. The aura lasts until the
end of your next turn, but the familiar can Sustain it up to
1 minute.
16TH LEVEL
EFFORTLESS CONCENTRATION [free-action] FEAT 16
WITCH
Trigger Your turn begins.
You maintain your active spells with hardly a thought. You
immediately gain the effects of a Sustain action for one of your
active witch spells.
SIPHON POWER [free-action] FEAT 16
WITCH
Frequency once per day
Requirements You haven’t acted yet on your turn.
You draw upon the reservoir of your patron’s magic that
resides within your familiar. During your turn, you can cast
one spell your familiar knows that was granted by your patron
or lessons without spending a spell slot to do so (or even
having it prepared). The spell must be at least 1 rank lower
than your highest-rank witch spell slot.
Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition of
spells you cast (arcane, divine, occult, or primal).
18TH LEVEL
SPLIT HEX [one-action] FEAT 18
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WITCH
You siphon some of the power from an offensive hex you
cast to direct it at a second target as well. If the next action
you use is to Cast a Spell to cast a harmful hex with a single
target, reduce its rank by 2 (making it 2 ranks lower than the
maximum spell rank you can cast). If you do, you can select a
second target for that hex to affect.
PATRON’S CLAIM FEAT 18
WITCH
Your patron partially manifests itself through your familiar
to claim a foe’s power for its own. Your familiar gains the
following activity.
Patron’s Claim [two-actions] Frequency once per hour; Effect Your
familiar’s mouth opens impossibly wide before your patron’s
grasping limb stretches forth from it at a creature within 30
feet, dealing 10d10 spirit damage with a basic Fortitude save
against your spell DC. If the creature fails its save and takes
damage, it is also drained 2 (or drained 4 on a critical failure)
and you regain 1 Focus Point, up to your usual maximum,
as your patron grants you additional magic in exchange for
your gift of your opponent’s spirit.

20TH LEVEL
HEX MASTER FEAT 20
WITCH
You embody the link to your patron so completely that you can
cast your hexes in rapid succession. You are no longer limited
to casting only a single hex each turn. In addition, when you
cast cackle to sustain a hex, you gain the effects of Sustain for
all your active hexes that have a duration of sustained.
PATRON’S TRUTH FEAT 20
WITCH
Prerequisites patron’s gift
You have mastered the greatest secrets of your patron’s magic
and learned a fundamental truth about your patron, even if
their identity still remains a mystery. You gain an additional
10th-rank spell slot.
WITCH’S HUT FEAT 20
WITCH
Your home is an animated structure that obeys your commands.
By performing a rite that takes 1 day, you create an animated
object from a hut, small house, covered wagon, tent, or similar
construction of up to Huge size.
The hut uses your AC, saving throw modifiers, and
Perception modifier and has 150 HP and Hardness 10. It has
the construct armor ability, meaning once it’s reduced to less
than half its Hit Points, or immediately upon being damaged
by a critical hit, its AC is reduced by 4 until it is repaired.
The hut can’t attack or attempt skill checks. You can
give the hut a command as a single action, which has the
auditory and concentrate traits; after 1 round of reconfiguring
itself, the hut then follows that command until you give it a
different command.
• Guard The hut watches for trespassers within 120 feet
using your Perception modifier and screams if it spots any.
• Hide The hut appears to be a normal, mundane object of
its type. This is a 10th-rank illusion effect.
• Leap The hut spins around or leaps into the air, then casts
10th-rank teleport, transporting itself and all creatures
within it.
• Lock With a slam, each entrance to the hut becomes
sealed with a lock spell. You can give this command again
to unlock its entrances.
• Move The hut gains a Speed of 60 feet, growing giant
bird or bone legs, if necessary, and follows an extremely
basic movement command you give it, such as “follow
me” or “move that direction.” While perfectly suitable for
overland travel, the hut’s broad movements and 1-round
delay on response time are too imprecise to predictably
direct in a combat encounter or other situation where
seconds and precise locations count.
You can have only one witch’s hut at a time. If you animate a
new hut, your previous hut immediately reverts to its original,
mundane form. If you die, the hut continues following the last
order you gave it indefinitely.
WIZARD
You are an eternal student of the secrets of the universe, using your mastery of
magic to cast powerful spells. You treat magic like a science, cross-referencing the
latest texts on practical spellcraft with ancient tomes to discover and understand
arcane magic. Yet magical theory is vast, and there’s no way you can study it all. Most
wizards learn through formal schooling, with their curriculum informing a specific rubric,
although particularly driven researchers sometimes piece together their own theories.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Intelligence
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to Intelligence.
HIT POINTS
6 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Arcana
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 2 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Untrained in all armor
Trained in unarmored defense
SPELLS
Trained in spell attack modifier
Trained in spell DC
CLASS DC
Trained in wizard class DC
During Combat Encounters...
You likely try to stay out of the fray, carefully judging when to use your
spells. You save your most powerful magic to incapacitate threatening foes
and use your cantrips when only weaker foes remain. When enemies pull out
tricks like invisibility or flight, you answer with spells like revealing light or
earthbind, leveling the field for your allies.
During Social Encounters...
You provide a well of knowledge about arcane matters and solve arguments
with logic.
While Exploring...
You locate magical auras and determine the significance of magical writing or
phenomena you uncover. When you run across an unusual obstacle to further
exploration, you probably have a scroll that will make it easier to overcome.
In Downtime...
You learn new spells, craft magic items, or scribe scrolls for your party, and
seek out new and exciting formulas in addition to spells. You might even
forge scholarly connections and establish a school or guild of your own.
You Might...
• Have an unquenchable intellectual curiosity about how everything in
the world around you works—magic in particular.
• Look for ways to apply the teachings of your school to any situation,
seeing problems through the lens of the spells you’ve devoted your life
to learning.
• Use esoteric jargon and technical terms to precisely describe the minutiae of
magical effects, even though the difference is probably lost on other people.
Others Probably...
• Consider you to be incredibly powerful and potentially dangerous.
• Fear what your magic can do to their minds, bodies, and souls, and
ask that you avoid casting spells in polite company, as few can identify
whether one of your spells is harmless or malevolent until it’s too late.
• Assume you can easily solve all their problems, from dangerous weather
to poor crop yields, and ask you for spells that can help them get
whatever they desire.
WIZARD ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1 Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, wizard spellcasting, arcane
thesis, arcane school, arcane bond
2 Skill feat, wizard feat
3 2nd-rank spells, general feat, skill increase
4 Skill feat, wizard feat
5 3rd-rank spells, attribute boosts, ancestry feat,
reflex expertise, skill increase
6 Skill feat, wizard feat
7 4th-rank spells, expert spellcaster, general feat,
skill increase
8 Skill feat, wizard feat
9 5th-rank spells, ancestry feat, magical
fortitude, skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, skill feat, wizard feat
11 6th-rank spells, general feat, perception
expertise, skill increase, wizard weapon
expertise
12 Skill feat, wizard feat
13 7th-rank spells, ancestry feat, defensive robes,
skill increase, weapon specialization
14 Skill feat, wizard feat
15 8th-rank spells, attribute boosts, general feat,
master spellcaster, skill increase
16 Skill feat, wizard feat
17 9th-rank spells, ancestry feat, prodigious will,
skill increase
18 Skill feat, wizard feat
19 Archwizard’s spellcraft, general feat, legendary
spellcaster, skill increase
20 Attribute boosts, skill feat, wizard feat
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a wizard. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the levels next to their names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background. These are described in Chapter 2.
Attribute Boosts
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have four free boosts to different attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four
free boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute
modifier is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to
increase it; you get a partial boost, and must boost that
attribute again at a later level to increase it by 1.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These are noted at the
start of this class.

Wizard Spellcasting
Through dedicated study and practice, you can construct
spells with academic rigor by shaping arcane magic. You
are a spellcaster, and you can cast spells of the arcane
tradition using the Cast a Spell activity. As a wizard,
when you cast spells, your incantations likely specify
exactly what forces you call on and how to shape them,
and your gestures precisely shape and direct your magic
while circles of arcane runes flare to life.
At 1st level, you can prepare up to two 1st-rank spells
and five cantrips each morning from the spells in your
spellbook (see below), as well as one extra curriculum
cantrip and one extra curriculum spell of each rank you
can cast from your arcane school (page 196). Prepared
spells remain available to you until you cast them or
until you prepare your spells again. The number of spells
you can prepare is called your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a wizard, the number of
spells you can prepare each day increases, as does the
highest rank of spell you can cast, as shown in the
Wizard Spells per Day table on page 195.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack
to see how effective they are, or have your enemies roll
against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving
throw). Since your key attribute is Intelligence, your spell
attack modifier and spell DC use your Intelligence modifier.
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 403.
Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd rank and higher, you can
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-rank spells.
This increases the spell’s rank, heightening it to match
the spell slot. Many spells have specific improvements
when they are heightened to certain ranks.
Cantrips
Some of your spells are cantrips. A cantrip is a special type
of spell that doesn’t use spell slots. You can cast a cantrip
at will, any number of times per day. A cantrip is always
automatically heightened to half your level rounded up—
this is usually equal to the highest rank of wizard spell
slot you have. For example, as a 1st-level wizard, your
cantrips are 1st-rank spells, and as a 5th-level wizard,
your cantrips are 3rd-rank spells.
Spellbook
Every arcane spell has a written version, which you
record in your personalized book of spells. You start with
a spellbook worth 10 sp or less (page 292), which you
receive for free and must study each day to prepare your
spells. Your spellbook’s form and name are up to you. It
might be a musty, leather-bound tome or an assortment
of thin metal disks connected to a brass ring; its name
might be esoteric, like The Tome of Silent Shadows or
something more academic, like Advanced Pyromantic
Applications of Jalmeri Elemental Theory.
WIZARD SPELLS PER DAY
Your Spell Rank
Level Cantrips 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 10th
1 5 2 — — — — — — — — —
2 5 3 — — — — — — — — —
3 5 3 2 — — — — — — — —
4 5 3 3 — — — — — — — —
5 5 3 3 2 — — — — — — —
6 5 3 3 3 — — — — — — —
7 5 3 3 3 2 — — — — — —
8 5 3 3 3 3 — — — — — —
9 5 3 3 3 3 2 — — — — —
10 5 3 3 3 3 3 — — — — —
11 5 3 3 3 3 3 2 — — — —
12 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 — — — —
13 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 — — —
14 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 — — —
15 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 — —
16 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 — —
17 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 —
18 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 —
19 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 1*
20 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 1*
* The archwizard’s spellcraft class feature gives you a 10th-rank spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots.
The spellbook contains your choice of 10 arcane
cantrips and five 1st-rank arcane spells. You choose
these from the common spells on the arcane spell list
(page 304) or from other arcane spells you gain access
to. You also add two 1st-rank spells from the curriculum
of your arcane school (except in the case of the school
of unified magical theory, as described in that school).
Each time you gain a level, you add two arcane spells
to your spellbook, of any spell rank for which you have
spell slots, chosen from common spells of your tradition
or others you gain access to and learn via Learn a Spell.
When you gain spell slots of a new rank, you also add an
additional spell from your school’s curriculum (unless
it’s the school of unified magical theory).
Arcane Thesis
During your studies to become a full-fledged wizard, you
produced a thesis of unique magical research. You gain
a special benefit depending on the topic of your thesis
research. The arcane thesis topics presented in this book
are below; your specific thesis probably has a much longer
and more technical title like “On the Methods of Spell
Interpolation and the Genesis of a New Understanding of
the Building Blocks of Magic.”
Experimental Spellshaping
Your thesis posits that the magical practice of spellshaping
can be realized more efficiently by altering variables and
parameters as you cast, imitating the wizards of long ago
who had to work out their own spells themselves. This
allows you efficient access to various spellshape effects.

You gain one 1st-level spellshape wizard feat of
your choice. Starting at 4th level, during your daily
preparations, you can gain a spellshape wizard feat of
your choice that has a level requirement of no more
than half your level, which you can use until your next
daily preparations.
Improved Familiar Attunement
You’ve long held that fine-tuning the magic that bonds
a wizard and their familiar can improve the mystic
connection and yield greater results, compared to
the safe yet generic bond most wizards currently use.
You’ve formed such a pact with your familiar, gaining
more advantages from it than most wizards. You gain
the Familiar wizard feat. Your familiar gains an extra
ability, and it gains an additional extra ability when
you reach 6th, 12th, and 18th levels.
Your connection with your familiar alters your arcane
bond class feature so that you store your magical energy
in your familiar, rather than an item you own; you also
gain the Drain Familiar free action instead of Drain
Bonded Item. Drain Familiar can be used any time an
ability would allow you to use Drain Bonded Item and
functions identically, except that you draw magic from
your familiar instead of an item.
Spell Blending
You theorize that spell slots are a shorthand for an
underlying energy that powers all spellcasting, and
you’ve found a way to tinker with the hierarchy of spell
slots, combining them to fuel more powerful spells.
During your daily preparations, you can trade two
spell slots of the same spell rank for a bonus spell
slot of up to 2 spell ranks higher than the traded spell
slots. You can exchange as many spell slots as you have
available. Bonus spell slots must be of a spell rank you
can normally cast, and each bonus spell slot must be of
a different spell rank. You can also trade any spell slot
for two additional cantrips, though you can’t trade more
than one spell slot at a time for additional cantrips in
this way.
Spell Substitution
You don’t accept the fact that once spells are prepared,
they can’t be changed until your next daily preparations,
and you have uncovered a shortcut allowing you to
substitute new spells for those you originally prepared.

You can spend 10 minutes to empty one of your
prepared spell slots and prepare a different spell from
your spellbook in its place. If you are interrupted during
such a swap, the original spell remains prepared and can
still be cast. You can try again to swap out the spell later,
but you must start the process over again.
Staff Nexus
Your thesis maintains that early and intense adoption of
staves from the first days of study can create a symbiotic
bond between spellcaster and staff, allowing them to
create remarkable magic together. You’ve formed such a
connection with a makeshift staff you built, and you are
ready to infuse any staff you encounter with greater power.
You begin play with a makeshift staff of your
own invention. It has the magical trait and contains
one cantrip and one 1st-rank spell, both from your
spellbook. During your daily preparations, you
can expend one spell to grant the staff a number
of charges equal to that spell’s rank, which
dissipate after 24 hours. While you are holding
the staff, you can Cast the Spells it contains. The
1st-rank spell consumes 1 charge but the cantrip
doesn’t require charges.
You can Craft your makeshift staff into any other
type of magical staff for the new staff’s usual cost,
adding the two spells you originally chose to the staff
you Craft. This staff gains charges from preparing it
along with expended spells. Magical staves are described
on page 278 of GM Core.
At 8th level, you can expend two spells instead of one
when preparing any staff, adding additional charges
equal to the combined ranks of the expended spells. At
16th level, you can expend up to a total of three spells to
add charges to the staff, adding additional charges equal
to the combined ranks of all three spells.
Arcane School
Most wizards acquire their knowledge of spells
from a formal educational institution, such as the
Arcanamirium or the Magaambya. At 1st level,
you choose your arcane school, which grants you
magical abilities.
You gain additional spells and spell slots from the
curriculum taught at the school you attended. Arcane
schools are described in detail on page 198. Some
wizards follow the school of unified magical theory,
which attempts to forge a new school by studying
independently and drawing information from a
multitude of texts and tutors. Though a wizard with this
approach lacks the focus of formal training, they have
greater flexibility.
Arcane Bond
You place some of your magical power in a bonded
item. Each day when you prepare your spells, you can
designate a single item you own as your bonded item.
This is typically an item associated with spellcasting,
such as a wand, ring, or staff, but you are free to
designate a weapon or other item. You gain the Drain
Bonded Item free action.
DRAIN BONDED ITEM [free-action]
ARCANE WIZARD
Frequency once per day
Requirements Your bonded item is on your person.
You expend the magical power stored in your bonded
item. During the current turn, you can cast one spell you
prepared today and already cast, without spending a spell
slot. You must still Cast the Spell and meet the spell’s
other requirements.
Skill Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 4 and
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the
corresponding skill to select a skill feat.
Wizard Feats 2nd
At 2nd level and every even-numbered level thereafter,
you gain a wizard class feat. These begin on page 201.
General Feats 3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
Skill Increases 3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained
in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in
which you’re already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you’re
already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in
which you’re already a master.
Ancestry Feats 5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you
gain an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels
thereafter. The list of ancestry feats available to you can
be found in your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Reflex Expertise 5th
You’ve developed a knack for dodging danger. Your
proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to expert.
Expert Spellcaster 7th
Extended practice of the arcane has improved your
capabilities. Your proficiency ranks for spell attack
modifier and spell DC increase to expert.

Magical Fortitude 9th
Magical power has improved your body’s resiliency.
Your proficiency rank for Fortitude saves increases
to expert.
Perception Expertise 11th
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
Weapon Expertise 11th
Through sheer experience, you’ve improved your
technique with your weapons. Your proficiency ranks for
simple weapons and unarmed attacks increase to expert.
Defensive Robes 13th
The flow of magic and your training combine to help
you avoid attacks. Your proficiency rank in unarmored
defense increases to expert.
Weapon Specialization 13th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal an additional 2
damage with weapons and unarmed attacks in which
you are an expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a
master, and 4 if you’re legendary.
Master Spellcaster 15th
You command superlative spellcasting ability. Your
proficiency ranks for spell attack modifier and spell DC
increase to master.
Prodigious Will 17th
Your mind is simply too complex and sophisticated to
be tampered with. Your proficiency rank for Will saves
increases to master. When you roll a success at a Will
save, you get a critical success instead.
Archwizard’s Spellcraft 19th
You command the most potent arcane magic and can
cast a spell of truly incredible power. You gain a single
10th-rank spell slot and can prepare a spell in that slot
using wizard spellcasting. Unlike with other spell slots,
you can’t use 10th-rank slots with abilities that give
you more spell slots or that let you cast spells without
expending spell slots. You don’t gain more 10th-rank
spells as you level up, but you can take the Archwizard’s
Might feat (page 205) to gain a second slot.
Legendary Spellcaster 19th
You are a consummate spellcaster, blending both arcane
theory and practical spellcraft. Your proficiency ranks for
spell attack modifier and spell DC increase to legendary.
KEY TERM

You’ll see the following key term in many wizard abilities.
Spellshape: Actions with the spellshape trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come
from spellshape feats. You must use a spellshape action
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of
the spellshape action. Any additional effects added by a
spellshape action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the
spellshape action itself.
WIZARD FEATS BY NAME
Feat Level
Advanced School Spell 8
Archwizard’s Might 20
Bespell Strikes 4
Bond Conservation 8
Bonded Focus 14
Call Wizardly Tools 4
Cantrip Expansion 2
Clever Counterspell 12
Conceal Spell 2
Convincing Illusion 6
Counterspell 1
Effortless Concentration 16
Energy Ablation 2
Enhanced Familiar 2
Explosive Arrival 6
Familiar 1
Forcible Energy 12
Form Retention 8
Infinite Possibilities 18
Irresistible Magic 6
Keen Magical Detection 12
Knowledge is Power 8

Linked Focus 4
Magic Sense 12
Nonlethal Spell 2
Overwhelming Energy 10
Quickened Casting 10
Reach Spell 1
Reflect Spell 14
Reprepare Spell 18
Scintillating Spell 16
Scroll Adept 10
Second Thoughts 18
Secondary Detonation Array 14
Spell Combination 20
Spell Mastery 20
Spell Protection Array 4
Spell Tinker 16
Spellbook Prodigy 1
Spellshape Mastery 20
Split Slot 6
Steady Spellcasting 6
Superior Bond 14
Widen Spell 1
Arcane Schools
Your arcane school is where you devoted yourself to the
study of spellcraft. Whether you learned in the storied
halls of a formal institution, via an apprenticeship
with an archmage, or taught yourself from secondhand
tomes, your arcane school indelibly set the curriculum
and direction of your magic.
Curriculum Spells: You automatically add some of the
spells listed in your school’s curriculum to your spellbook.
At 1st level, you add a cantrip and two 1st-rank spells
of your choice. As soon as you gain the ability to cast
wizard spells of a new rank, choose one of the spells from
your curriculum of that rank to add to your spellbook.
A superscript “U” indicates an uncommon spell. Your
GM might allow you to swap or add other spells to your
curriculum if they strongly fit the theme.
Spell Slots: Each day, you can prepare an extra cantrip
from your curriculum. You also gain an extra spell slot at
each spell rank for which you have wizard spell slots. You
can prepare only spells from your school’s curriculum in

these extra slots. Any spell listed in your curriculum of
a suitable spell rank is eligible to be prepared in each of
these extra slots, regardless of how you added the spell to
your spellbook.
School Spells: School spells are a type of focus spell. It
costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus spell, and you start with
a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool
during your daily preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus
Point by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity to
study your spellbook or conduct arcane research.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half
your level rounded up, much like cantrips. Focus spells
don’t require spell slots, and you can’t cast them using
spell slots. Certain feats give you more focus spells. The
maximum Focus Points your focus pool can hold is equal
to the number of focus spells you have, but it can never be
more than 3 points. The full rules for focus spells appear
on page 298.
You learn the initial school spell, which is unique to your
school. You can learn the advanced school spell with the
Advanced School Spell feat (page 203).
School of Ars Grammatica
Runes and wards, numbers and letters—they underpin all
magic, making them the logical subject for a wizard who
studies fundamental forces. Perhaps you studied at the
Pathfinder Society’s School of Spells or a similar institution,
but whether you’re lacing your words with magic to
compel others, casting wards around your workshop, or
destabilizing the very structure of an opponent’s spells, you
know this unassuming school carries elegant power.
Curriculum cantrips: message, sigil; 1st: command, disguise
magic, runic body, runic weapon; 2nd: dispel magic,
translate; 3rd: enthrall, veil of privacyU; 4th: dispelling
globeU, suggestion; 5th: sending, truespeechU; 6th:
repulsion, spellwrack; 7th: contingency, planar sealU; 8th:
quandary, unrelenting observation; 9th: detonate magicU
School Spells initial: protective wards; advanced: rune of
observation
School of Battle Magic
Magic is power, and there are always those who will
use power for the art of battle. You may have studied
in the military of a nation of the brink of war—Cheliax
and Andoran perhaps, or Geb and Nex. You summon
whirling energies that can lay waste to both soldiers
and armies, while being sure not to neglect arcane
countermeasures for common tactical complications or
the shields and defenses that keep combatants alive on
the battlefield.
Curriculum cantrips: shield, telekinetic projectile; 1st: breathe
fire, force barrage, mystic armor; 2nd: mist, resist energy;
3rd: earthbind, fireball; 4th: wall of fire, weapon storm;
5th: howling blizzard, impaling spike; 6th: chain lightning,
disintegrate; 7th: energy aegis, true target; 8th: arctic rift,
desiccate; 9th: falling stars
School Spells initial: force bolt; advanced: energy absorption

School of the Boundary
Why use your magic to affect something as pedestrian as
the physical world? Whether you studied at the College
of Dimensional Studies in Katapesh or an underground
school in haunted Ustalav, you’ve turned your magic
past the Universe to the forces beyond, summoning
spirits and shades, manipulating dimensions and planes,
and treading in a place not meant for mortals.
Curriculum cantrips: telekinetic hand, void warp; 1st: grim
tendrils, phantasmal minion, summon undead; 2nd: darkness,
see the unseen; 3rd: bind undead, ghostly weapon; 4th: flicker,
translocate; 5th: banishment, invoke spirits; 6th: teleportU,
vampiric exsanguination; 7th: eclipse burst, interplanar
teleportU; 8th: quandary, unrelenting observation; 9th:
massacre
School Spells initial: fortify summoning; advanced: spiral of horrors
School of Civic Wizardry
Whether you studied in Manaket’s Occularium or the
Academy of Applied Magic, you learned that the fruits
of arcane studies—like any other field—should ultimately
help the common citizen. You’ve learned the humble art of
construction, of finding lost people and things, of moving
speedily among buildings and moats—yet these same
arts can be turned to demolition, and the constructs you
animate to build bridges can just as easily tear them down.
Curriculum cantrips: prestidigitation, read aura; 1st: hydraulic
push, pummeling rubble, summon construct; 2nd: revealing
light, water walk; 3rd: cozy cabin, safe passage; 4th:
creation, unfettered movement; 5th: control water, wall of
stone; 6th: disintegrate, wall of force; 7th: planar palace,
retrocognition; 8th: earthquake, pinpointU; 9th: foresight
School Spells initial: earthworks; advanced: community
restoration
Sample Wizard
STUDENT OF THE VOID

Your magic summons spirits, transports you, and lets you
channel the energy of other planes. You know about odd
creatures and distant realms.
Attributes

Prioritize Intelligence. Dexterity, Constitution, and
Wisdom round out your defenses.
Skills

Arcana, Crafting, Diplomacy, Nature, Occultism, Religion,
Society

Arcane School
School of the Boundary
Thesis
Improved familiar attunement
Higher-Level Feats

Enhanced Familiar (2nd), Advanced School Spell (8th),
Effortless Concentration (16th)
School of Mentalism
As a scholar, you know all too well the importance of
a sound mind. Thus, you attended a school—like the
Farseer Tower or the Stone of the Seers—that taught
the arts of befuddling lesser minds with figments and
illusions or implanted sensations and memories.
Curriculum cantrips: daze, figment; 1st: dizzying colors, sleep,
sure strike; 2nd: illusory creature, stupefy; 3rd: dream
message, mind readingU; 4th: nightmare, vision of death; 5th:
hallucination, illusory scene; 6th: never mind, phantasmal
calamity; 7th: project image, warp mind; 8th: disappearance,
uncontrollable dance; 9th: phantasmagoria
School Spells initial: charming push; advanced: invisibility
cloak
School of Protean Form
The uninitiated often think of wizards as cerebral, focused
on their studies more than the body, yet your school
of magic taught of the relationship between the two.
Your magic, whether learned at a storied institution like
Kintargo’s Alabaster Academy or someplace more sinister,
like the Fleshforges of Nex, focuses on the ways that living
matter can be convinced into another shape for a time,
allowing you to polymorph a seed into a vine, a human
into a beast, or a harmless germ into a deadly toxin.
Curriculum cantrips: gouging claw, tangle vine; 1st: jump, pest
form, spider sting; 2nd: enlarge, humanoid form; 3rd: feet
to fins, vampiric feast; 4th: mountain resilience, vapor form;
5th: elemental form, toxic cloud; 6th: cursed metamorphosis,
petrify; 7th: duplicate foe, fiery body; 8th: desiccate,
monstrosity form; 9th: metamorphosis
School Spells initial: scramble body; advanced: shifting
form
School of Unified Magical
Theory
You eschew the idea that magic can be
neatly expressed by the teachings of any
single school or college, instead directing
your self-study to pick up the best of
every school of magic. In doing so, you’ll
find the truths that lie at the intersection of
each school, coming closer to the ideal nature
of arcane magic. One day, you’ll uncover that
single elegant theory detailing all magic (perhaps
a theory bearing your name?), but until then, your
studies continue.
No Curriculum You don’t have a set curriculum, and so
you don’t have curriculum spells and can’t benefit from
abilities that specifically affect them. Instead, you gain an

additional 1st-level wizard class feat, and you add one 1st-
rank spell of your choice to your spellbook to represent

your diverse studies.
Your studies into the very nature of magic itself have let
you use it more efficiently—instead of using Drain Bonded Item
only once per day, you can use it once per day for each rank
of spell you can cast, recalling a spell of that rank each time.
School Spells initial: hand of the apprentice; advanced:
interdisciplinary incantation
Wizard Feats
At each level that you gain a wizard feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before taking the feat.
1ST LEVEL
COUNTERSPELL [reaction] FEAT 1
ARCANE WIZARD
Trigger A creature Casts a Spell that you have prepared.
When a foe Casts a Spell and you can see its manifestations,
you can use your own magic to counter it. You expend a
prepared spell to counter the triggering creature’s casting of
that same spell. You lose your spell slot as if you had cast the
triggering spell. You then attempt to counteract the triggering
spell (page 431).
FAMILIAR FEAT 1
WIZARD
You make a pact with a creature that serves you and assists
your spellcasting. You gain a familiar (page 212).
REACH SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s
range by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if
the spell normally has a range of touch, you extend its range
to 30 feet.
SPELLBOOK PRODIGY FEAT 1
WIZARD
Prerequisites trained in Arcana
You are particularly adept at learning spells to add to your
spellbook. You gain the Magical Shorthand skill feat (page
258) without needing to meet its prerequisites. Further, when
you roll a critical failure on your check to Learn a Spell, you get
a failure instead.
WIDEN SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to affect a
wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that has

an area of a burst, cone, or line and does not have a duration,
increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the radius of a
burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet (a burst
with a smaller radius is not affected). Add 5 feet to the length
of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or smaller, and
add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
2ND LEVEL
CANTRIP EXPANSION FEAT 2
WIZARD
Dedicated study allows you to prepare a wider range of simple
spells for every situation. You can prepare two additional
cantrips each day.
CONCEAL SPELL [one-action] FEAT 2
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
By shaping the magical energies and parameters of your spells
all in your head through sheer concentration, you can simplify
the incantations and gestures needed to spellcast, leaving
them barely noticeable. If the next action you use is to Cast a
Spell, the spell gains the subtle trait, hiding the shining runes,
sparks of magic, and other manifestations that would usually
give away your spellcasting. The trait hides only the spell’s
spellcasting actions and manifestations, not its effects, so an
observer might still see a ray streak out from you or see you
vanish into thin air.
ENERGY ABLATION [one-action] FEAT 2
SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
As you direct destructive energy at a foe, you can divert
some of its power into a protective barrier that shields you
from harm. If your next action is to Cast a Spell that deals
at least one type of energy damage (acid, cold, electricity,
fire, force, sonic, vitality, or void), you gain resistance to an
energy damage type of your choice equal to the spell’s rank.
The resistance lasts until the end of your next turn. You
get the resistance regardless of whether or not your spell
dealt damage.
ENHANCED FAMILIAR FEAT 2
WIZARD
Prerequisites a familiar
You infuse your familiar with additional magical energy. You
can select four familiar or master abilities each day, instead
of two.
Special If your arcane thesis is improved familiar attunement,
your familiar’s base number of familiar abilities, before
adding any extra abilities from the arcane thesis, is four.
NONLETHAL SPELL [one-action] FEAT 2
MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
You can alter offensive spells to be less deadly. If your next
action is to Cast a Spell that deals damage and doesn’t have
the death or void trait, that spell gains the nonlethal trait
(page 407).
Sample Wizard
MINDBENDER

You excel at bypassing threats without violence, using
mental nudges and illusions to fool the senses.
Attributes

Prioritize Intelligence. Increase Dexterity and Charisma
so you can sneak and deceive people with skills as well
as spells.

Skills

Arcana, Deception, Diplomacy, Occultism, Society,
Stealth, Thievery

Arcane School

School of Mentalism
Thesis

Spell blending

Higher-Level Feats

Conceal Spell (2nd), Convincing Illusion (6th), Advanced
School Spell (8th), Magic Sense (12th)
4TH LEVEL
BESPELL STRIKES [free-action] FEAT 4
WIZARD
Frequency once per turn
Requirements Your most recent action was to cast a
non-cantrip spell.
You siphon spell energy into one weapon you’re wielding, or
into one of your unarmed attacks, such as a fist. Until the end
of your turn, the weapon or unarmed attack deals an extra
1d6 force damage and gains the arcane trait if it didn’t have it
already. If the spell dealt a different type of damage, the Strike
deals this type of damage instead (or one type of your choice
if the spell could deal multiple types of damage).
CALL WIZARDLY TOOLS [one-action] FEAT 4
CONCENTRATE TELEPORTATION WIZARD
Prerequisites arcane bond
You’re mystically connected to your wizardly tools,
ensuring you can always find them when you’ve misplaced
them. You teleport your bonded item or spellbook to you.
It arrives in your hand if you have a free hand or at your
feet if you don’t. The item must be within 1 mile and have
1 Bulk or less.
LINKED FOCUS FEAT 4
WIZARD
Prerequisites arcane bond, curriculum spells
You have linked your bonded item to the well of energy that
powers your school spells. Once per day when you Drain your
Bonded Item to cast one of your arcane school’s curriculum
spells, you also regain 1 Focus Point.
SPELL PROTECTION ARRAY [one-action] FEAT 4
ARCANE MANIPULATE WIZARD
You inscribe a circle of arcane runes that dampen
enemies’ magic. You create a glowing magic circle in a
5-foot burst within 30 feet. Creatures in the circle gain
a +1 status bonus to saving throws against magic. The
circle lasts until the end of your next turn, and you can
Sustain it, to a maximum duration of 1 minute.
6TH LEVEL
CONVINCING ILLUSION [reaction] FEAT 6
WIZARD
Prerequisites expert in Deception
Trigger A creature succeeded, but didn’t critically succeed, at a
Perception check or Will save to disbelieve an illusion from
a spell that you cast.
Requirements You are within 30 feet of the observer and
the illusion.
You use your deceptive skills to make your illusions seem
even more real. Attempt a Deception check against the target’s
Perception DC. If you succeed, the target fails to disbelieve
the illusion.
EXPLOSIVE ARRIVAL [free-action] FEAT 6
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
Your summoned creature appears in a detonation of arcane
runes. If your next action is to Cast a Spell with the summon
trait, all creatures in a 10-foot emanation around the creature
you summoned take 1d4 fire damage per spell rank. If the
creature summoned has the acid, cold, electricity, sonic, or
spirit trait, you can deal damage of that type instead.
IRRESISTIBLE MAGIC FEAT 6
WIZARD
You’ve studied ways of overcoming the innate defenses
against magic that dragons, otherworldly beings, and certain
other powerful creatures have. Any creature that has a status
bonus to saving throws against magic reduces that bonus by
1 against your spells.
SPLIT SLOT FEAT 6
WIZARD
You can prepare two spells in one slot, giving you the freedom
to choose the spell when you cast it. When you prepare your
spells for the day, you can choose one spell slot at least 1 rank
lower than the highest-rank spell you can cast and prepare
two spells in that slot. When you Cast a Spell from that slot,
choose which spell to cast. Once you’ve chosen, the unused
spell dissipates as though you hadn’t prepared it at all—for
example, it isn’t available for use with Drain Bonded Item.
STEADY SPELLCASTING FEAT 6
WIZARD
Confident in your technique and possessing ironclad
concentration, you don’t easily lose your concentration when
you Cast a Spell. If a reaction would disrupt your spellcasting
action, attempt a DC 15 flat check. If you succeed, your action
isn’t disrupted.
8TH LEVEL
ADVANCED SCHOOL SPELL FEAT 8
WIZARD
You gain access to the advanced teachings of your arcane
institution, learning a powerful new school spell. You gain the
advanced school spell for your arcane school.
BOND CONSERVATION [one-action] FEAT 8
MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
Prerequisites arcane bond
Requirements The last action you used was to Cast a Spell
enabled by Drain Bonded Item.
By efficiently and carefully manipulating the arcane energies
unleashed by your bonded item, you can conserve just enough
power to cast another spell, though this second spell is slightly
weaker. You gain an extra use of Drain Bonded Item. You can
use it to cast a spell 2 or more ranks lower than the previous
spell, and must use it before the end of your next turn or you
lose it.

FORM RETENTION FEAT 8
WIZARD
You have trained your mind and body to tolerate polymorph
magic for longer periods of time, so long as you prepare for the
change appropriately. When preparing a polymorph spell that
lasts 1 minute and grants a battle form, you can prepare the
spell in a slot 2 ranks higher than normal. This doesn’t grant
any of the normal benefits of heightening a spell, but the spell
lasts up to 10 minutes. For example, if you prepared animal
form in a 4th-rank slot with Form Retention, you would cast
a 2nd-rank animal form that lasts for up to 10 minutes. If the
spell can be Dismissed, that doesn’t change.
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER FEAT 8
WIZARD
Your academic knowledge about a creature allows you to
subtly alter your magic to defeat them. When you critically
succeed at a Recall Knowledge check about a creature, you
can invoke your knowledge to make the creature take a –1
circumstance penalty to either AC and saves against the next
attack you make against it, or the next spell you cast that it
needs to defend against. The creature takes the same penalty
to its attack or DC the next time it attacks against you or
causes you to attempt a save against one of its effects.
If you share this information with your allies, they gain the
benefits as well. If not used, the bonuses end after 1 minute.
10TH LEVEL
OVERWHELMING ENERGY [one-action] FEAT 10
MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
Multiple circles of runes rotate around your hand as you
overcharge your spell to tear through your enemy’s defenses.
If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell, the spell ignores an
amount of the target’s resistance to acid, cold, electricity, fire,
or sonic damage equal to your level. This applies to all damage
the spell deals, including persistent damage and damage
caused by an ongoing effect of the spell, such as the wall
created by wall of fire. A creature’s immunities are unaffected.
QUICKENED CASTING [free-action] FEAT 10
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
Frequency once per day
Straining your mind, you collapse as much of your spell’s
formulas as you can, resulting in a shorter but much more
complex incantation. If your next action is to cast a wizard
cantrip or a wizard spell that is at least 2 ranks lower than the
highest-rank wizard spell slot you have, reduce the number of
actions to cast it by 1 (minimum 1 action).
SCROLL ADEPT FEAT 10
WIZARD
During your daily preparations, you can create two temporary
scrolls containing arcane spells from your spellbook. Each scroll
must be of a different spell rank, and both spell ranks must be
2 or more ranks lower than your highest-rank spell. Any scrolls
you create this way become non-magical the next time you make
your daily preparations. A temporary scroll has no value if sold.
As normal for a scroll, these are consumable items of light Bulk,
and someone holding the item in one hand can Cast the Spell from
it if it’s on their spell list, using their spell attack modifier and spell
DC. Scrolls are detailed fully on page 262 of GM Core.
If you have master proficiency in spell DC, you can create
three temporary scrolls during your daily preparations,
and if you have legendary proficiency, you can create four
temporary scrolls.
12TH LEVEL
CLEVER COUNTERSPELL FEAT 12
WIZARD
Prerequisites Counterspell, Quick Recognition (page 260)
You creatively apply your prepared spells to Counterspell a
much wider variety of your opponents’ magic. Instead of being
able to counter a foe’s spell with Counterspell only if you have
that same spell prepared, you can use Counterspell as long as
you have the spell the foe is casting in your spellbook. When
you use Counterspell in this way, you must still expend a
prepared spell; the prepared spell you expend must share a trait
with the triggering spell other than concentrate, manipulate,
or its tradition trait. The GM might allow you to instead use a
spell that has an opposing trait or that otherwise logically would
counter the triggering spell (such as using a cold or water spell
to counter fireball or using clear mind to counter a fear spell).
FORCIBLE ENERGY [one-action] FEAT 12
MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
You perform complex manipulations to make the energy from
your spells so powerful that your enemies remain vulnerable
to it afterward. If your next action is to Cast a Spell that deals
acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic damage, you can select one
target that was damaged to gain weakness 5 to that damage
type until the end of your next turn. If a spell deals multiple
types of energy damage, choose one that the target gains
weakness to. This has no effect on creatures with resistance
or immunity to the energy type you choose.
KEEN MAGICAL DETECTION FEAT 12
FORTUNE WIZARD
You sense magical dangers. When using the Detect Magic
exploration activity, you can roll initiative twice and use the
better result so long as at least one opponent has a magical
effect or magic item and is in range of your detect magic.
MAGIC SENSE FEAT 12
ARCANE DETECTION WIZARD
You have a literal sixth sense for ambient magic in your
vicinity. You can sense the presence of magic auras as though
you were always using a 1st-rank detect magic spell. This
detects magic in your field of vision only. When you Seek, you
gain the benefits of a 3rd-rank detect magic spell on things
you see (in addition to the normal benefits of Seeking). You

can turn this sense off and on with a free action at the start or
the end of your turn.
14TH LEVEL
BONDED FOCUS FEAT 14
WIZARD
Prerequisites arcane bond
Your connection to your bonded item increases your focus
pool. Whenever you Refocus while your bonded item is in your
possession, you completely refill your focus pool.
REFLECT SPELL FEAT 14
WIZARD
Prerequisites Counterspell
When you successfully use Counterspell to counteract a spell
that affects targeted creatures or an area, you can turn that
spell’s effect back on its caster. When reflected, the spell
affects only the original caster, even if it’s an area spell or it
would normally affect more than one creature. The original
caster can attempt a save and use other defenses against the
reflected spell as normal.
SECONDARY DETONATION ARRAY [one-action] FEAT 14
MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
You divert some of your spell’s energy into an unstable runic
array. If your next action is to Cast a Spell that deals damage, has
no duration, and affects an area, a glowing magic circle appears
in a 5-foot burst within that area. At the beginning of your next
turn, the circle detonates, dealing 1d6 force damage per rank of
the spell to all creatures within the circle, with a basic Reflex save
against your spell DC. If the spell dealt a different type of damage,
the circle deals this type of damage instead (or one type of your
choice if the spell could deal multiple types of damage).
SUPERIOR BOND FEAT 14
WIZARD
Prerequisites arcane bond
When you draw upon your bonded item, you can leave a bit of
energy within it for later use. You can use Drain Bonded Item
one additional time per day, but only to cast a spell 2 or more
ranks lower than your highest-rank wizard spell slot.
16TH LEVEL
EFFORTLESS CONCENTRATION [free-action] FEAT 16
WIZARD
Trigger Your turn begins.
You maintain your active spells with hardly a thought. You
immediately gain the effects of a Sustain action for one of your
active wizard spells.
SCINTILLATING SPELL [one-action] FEAT 16
CONCENTRATE LIGHT SPELLSHAPE WIZARD
Your spells become a radiant display of light and color. If your
next action is to Cast a Spell that doesn’t have the darkness
trait, has no duration, and requires creatures to attempt a
Reflex save, the spell explodes in a spray of scintillating lights,
in addition to its other effects. Each creature that failed its
Reflex save against the spell is dazzled for 1 round, and those
who critically failed are instead blinded for 1 round.
SPELL TINKER [two-actions] FEAT 16
CONCENTRATE WIZARD
You’ve learned to alter choices you make when casting spells
on yourself. After casting a spell on only yourself that offers
several choices of effect (such as resist energy or a polymorph
spell that offers several potential forms), you can alter the
choice you made when Casting the Spell (for instance, choosing
a different type of damage for resist energy).
You can’t use this feat if the benefits of the spell have already
been used up or if the effects of the first choice would persist
in any way after switching (for instance, if one of the choices
was to create a consumable item you already used, or to heal
you), or if the feat would create an effect more powerful than
that offered by the base spell. The GM is the final arbiter of
what Spell Tinker can be applied to.
18TH LEVEL
INFINITE POSSIBILITIES FEAT 18
WIZARD
You can prepare a spell slot that exists in your mind as
many different possibilities at once. Once during your daily
preparations, you can use a spell slot to hold that infinite
potential, rather than using it to prepare a spell. You can use
this spell slot to cast any spell from your spellbook that’s at
least 2 ranks lower than the slot you designate; the spell acts
in all ways as a spell of 2 ranks lower. You don’t have any
particular spell prepared in that slot until you cast it.
REPREPARE SPELL FEAT 18
WIZARD
You’ve discovered how to reuse some of your spell slots over
and over. You can spend 10 minutes to prepare a spell that
you already cast today, regaining access to that spell slot. The
spell must be of 4th rank or lower and can’t have a duration.
You can reprepare a spell in this way even if you’ve already
reprepared that spell previously in the same day.
If you have the spell substitution arcane thesis, you can
instead prepare a different spell in an expended slot, as long
as the new spell doesn’t have a duration. You can use spell
substitution on that slot again, but you remain restricted to
preparing only spells without a duration in that slot until the
next time you make your daily preparations.
SECOND THOUGHTS [reaction] FEAT 18
CONCENTRATE MENTAL WIZARD
Trigger You cast a mental spell that targets one creature, and
it critically succeeds at its Will save.
When your target proves resilient to your magical deceptions,
you can try them again on someone else. You can Cast the

triggering Spell a second time, targeting a different creature,
without expanding an additional spell slot. You can do so only
until the end of your next turn, and you can’t use Second
Thoughts on it after the second casting of the spell.
20TH LEVEL
ARCHWIZARD’S MIGHT FEAT 20
WIZARD
Prerequisites archwizard’s spellcraft
You have mastered the greatest secrets of arcane magic. You
gain an additional 10th-rank spell slot.
SPELL COMBINATION FEAT 20
WIZARD
You can merge spells, producing multiple effects with a single
casting. One slot of each rank of spell you can cast, except
2nd rank and 1st rank, becomes a spell combination slot (this
doesn’t apply to cantrips). When you prepare your spells, you
can fill a combination slot with a combination of two spells.
Each spell in the combination must be 2 or more spell ranks
below the slot’s rank, and both must target only one creature
or object or have the option to target only one creature or
object. Each spell in the combination must also have the
same means of determining whether it has an effect—both
spells must require a ranged spell attack, require the same
type of saving throw, or automatically affect the target.
When you cast a combined spell, it affects only one target,
even if the component spells normally affect more than
one. If any spell in the combination has further restrictions
(such as targeting only living creatures), you must abide by
all restrictions. The combined spell uses the shorter of the
component spells’ ranges. Resolve a combined spell as if
were a single spell, but apply the effects of both component
spells. For example, if the spell’s target succeeded at the save
against a combined spell, it would apply the success effect of
each spell, and if it critically failed, it would apply the critical
failure effect of both spells.
SPELL MASTERY FEAT 20
WIZARD
You have mastered a handful of spells to such a degree that
you can cast them even if you haven’t prepared them in
advance. Select any four spells of 9th rank or lower that are
in your spellbook; each spell you select must be of a different
rank. These spells are automatically prepared when you make
your daily preparations, and you gain an extra spell slot for
each spell. You can select a different combination of spells by
spending 1 week of downtime studying your spellbook and
retraining your mastered spells.
SPELLSHAPE MASTERY FEAT 20
WIZARD
Your mastery of magic ensures that you can alter your spells
just as easily as you can cast them normally. You can use
spellshape single actions as free actions.
COMPANIONS
Some adventurers travel with loyal allies known as animal companions and familiars. The
former begin as young animals but acquire impressive physical abilities as you level up,
while the latter share a magical bond with you.
Animal companions and familiars are special benefits
for certain classes or class feats. If you simply want a
pet regardless of your class, you can take the Pet feat
(page 259). You can have a familiar or pet, but not both.
Because animal companions function much differently,
you can have both an animal companion and a familiar
or pet.
Animal Companions
An animal companion is a loyal comrade who follows your
orders. Your animal companion has the animal and minion
traits, and it gains 2 actions during your turn if you use the
Command an Animal action to command it; this replaces
the usual effects of Command an Animal, and you don’t
need to attempt a Nature check. If your companion dies,
you can spend a week of downtime to replace it at no cost.
You can have only one animal companion at a time.
Young Animal Companions
The following are the base statistics for a young animal
companion, the first animal companion most characters
get. You adjust these statistics depending on the type of
animal you choose. Animal companions calculate their
modifiers and DCs just as you do with one difference: the
only item bonuses they can benefit from are to Speed and
AC (their maximum item bonus to AC is +3). As you gain
levels, you might be able to make your companion stronger
by advancing it as described on page 211.
An animal companion’s starting statistics are as follows.
Level: Your animal companion’s level is equal to yours.
Proficiencies: Your animal companion is trained in its
unarmed attacks, unarmored defense, barding (a type
of armor for animals), all saving throws, Perception,
Acrobatics, and Athletics. Animal companions can’t use
abilities that require greater Intelligence, such as Coerce or
Decipher Writing, even if trained in the appropriate skill,
unless they have a specialization that allows it.
Attribute Modifiers: An animal companion begins with
base attribute modifiers listed in its stat block.
Hit Points: Your animal companion has ancestry Hit
Points from its type, plus a number of Hit Points equal to
6 plus its Constitution modifier for each level you have.
Companion Types
The species of animal you choose is called your companion’s
type. Each companion type has its own statistics, as follows.
Size The companion’s size
Unarmed Attacks One or more entries with the companion’s
unarmed attacks and their traits and damage
Attribute Modifiers Starting attribute modifiers
Hit Points The companion’s ancestry Hit Points
Skill An additional trained skill your companion has
Senses Special senses your companion has
Speed Your companion’s Speeds
Special If present, this lists any special ability your companion
has, such as whether it often serves as a mount.
Support Benefit A special benefit you gain by Commanding the
Animal to use the Support action (see below).
Advanced Maneuver A powerful new action your companion
learns how to use if it becomes a nimble or savage animal
companion.
SUPPORT [one-action]
Requirements The creature is an animal companion.
Your animal companion supports you. You gain the benefits
listed in the companion type’s Support Benefit entry. If the
animal uses the Support action, the only other actions it can use
on this turn are basic move actions to get into position to take
advantage of the Support benefits; if it has already used any
other action this turn, it can’t Support you.
Ape
Your companion is an ape or other primate.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] fist, Damage 1d8 bludgeoning
Str +3, Dex +1, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
Hit Points 8
Skill Intimidation
Senses low-light vision
Speed 25 feet, climb 25 feet
Support Benefit Your ape threatens your foes with menacing
growls. Until the start of your next turn, if you hit and
deal damage to a creature in your ape’s reach, the creature
becomes frightened 1.
Advanced Maneuver Frightening Display
FRIGHTENING DISPLAY [one-action]
Your ape makes a loud and frightening display, throwing a
foe off balance. The ape attempts to Demoralize the target
creature; this display gains the visual trait and doesn’t require

language. While frightened by this ability, the target is off-
guard to your ape.

Arboreal Sapling
UNCOMMON PLANT
Access You are a member of the leaf order.
Your companion is a walking tree, a cousin of the great arboreal
wardens and regents. An arboreal sapling has the plant trait
instead of the animal trait, but it otherwise functions normally
as an animal companion. They are typically only selected by
animal order druids who are also members of the leaf order.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] branch, Damage 1d8 bludgeoning
Str +3, Dex +1, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
Hit Points 8
Skill Stealth
Senses low-light vision
Speed 25 feet
Support Benefit Your arboreal sapling plants roots around
your foe, impeding its movement. Until the start of your
next turn, if you hit and deal damage to a creature in your
arboreal sapling’s reach, the first square the creature moves
into after taking that damage is difficult terrain.
Advanced Maneuver Throw Rock
THROW ROCK [reaction]
The arboreal sapling Interacts to pick up a rock within reach
or retrieve a stowed rock, then throws it with a ranged rock
Strike that deals a base of 1d6 bludgeoning damage with a
range increment of 30 feet. The damage is 2d6 for a mature
arboreal sapling and 3d6 for a specialized one.
Badger
Your companion is a badger, wolverine, or other big mustelid.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 1d8 piercing
Melee [one-action] claw (agile), Damage 1d6 slashing
Str +2, Dex +2, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
Hit Points 8
Skill Survival
Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet)
Speed 25 feet, burrow 10 feet, climb 10 feet
Support Benefit Your badger digs around your foe’s position,
interfering with its footing. Until the start of your next turn, if
you hit and deal damage to a creature your badger threatens,
the target can’t use a Step action (unless it can Step through
difficult terrain) until it moves from its current position.
Advanced Maneuver Badger Rage
BADGER RAGE [one-action]
CONCENTRATE EMOTION MENTAL
Requirements The badger isn’t fatigued or raging.
The badger enters a state of pure rage that lasts for 1
minute, until there are no enemies it can perceive, or until it
falls unconscious, whichever comes first. It can’t voluntarily
stop raging. While raging, the badger is affected in the
following ways.
• It deals 4 additional damage with its bite attacks and 2
additional damage with its claw attacks.
• It takes a –1 penalty to AC.
• It can’t use actions that have the concentrate trait. The
animal companion can Seek even while raging.
After it has stopped raging, it can’t use Badger Rage again
for 1 minute.

Bat
Your companion is a particularly large bat, such as a giant bat.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws (finesse), Damage 1d6 piercing
Melee [one-action] wing (agile, finesse), Damage 1d4 slashing
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Stealth
Senses echolocation 20 feet (the bat can use hearing as a
precise sense within this range), low-light vision
Speed 15 feet, fly 30 feet
Support Benefit Your bat flaps around your foes’ arms and faces,
getting in the way of their attacks. Until the start of your
next turn, creatures in your bat’s reach that you damage with
Strikes take a –1 circumstance penalty to their attack rolls.
Advanced Maneuver Wing Thrash
WING THRASH [two-actions]
The bat thrashes wildly with its wings, making wing Strikes
against up to three adjacent foes. Each attack counts toward
the bat’s multiple attack penalty, but the penalty only increases
after all the attacks have been made.
Bear
Your companion is a black, grizzly, polar, or other type of bear.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 1d8 piercing
Melee [one-action] claw (agile), Damage 1d6 slashing
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 8
Skill Intimidation
Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet)
Speed 35 feet
Support Benefit Your bear mauls your enemies when you create
an opening. Until the start of your next turn, each time you
hit a creature in the bear’s reach with a Strike, the creature
takes 1d8 slashing damage from the bear. If your bear is
nimble or savage, the slashing damage increases to 2d8.
Advanced Maneuver Bear Hug
BEAR HUG [one-action]
Requirements The bear’s last action was a successful claw Strike.
The bear makes another claw Strike against the same target.
If this Strike hits, the target is also grabbed, as if the bear had
successfully Grappled the target.
RIDING ANIMAL COMPANIONS
You or an ally can ride your animal companion as long as
it is at least one size larger than the rider. If it is carrying
a rider, the animal companion can use only its land
Speed, and it can’t move and Support you on the same
turn. However, if your companion has the mount special
ability, it’s especially suited for riding and ignores both of
these restrictions.
Bird
Your companion is a bird of prey, such as an eagle, hawk, or owl.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws (finesse), Damage 1d6 piercing
Melee [one-action] talon (agile, finesse), Damage 1d4 slashing
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +1, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
Hit Points 4
Skill Stealth
Senses low-light vision
Speed 10 feet, fly 60 feet
Support Benefit The bird pecks at your foes’ eyes when you
create an opening. Until the start of your next turn, your
Strikes that damage a creature that your bird threatens also
deal 1d4 persistent bleed damage, and the target is dazzled
until it removes the bleed damage. If your bird is nimble or
savage, the persistent bleed damage increases to 2d4.
Advanced Maneuver Flyby Attack
FLYBY ATTACK [two-actions]
The bird Flies and makes a talon Strike at any point along
the way.

Boar
Your companion is a boar or pig.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] tusk, Damage 1d8 piercing
Str +3, Dex +1, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
Hit Points 8
Skill Survival
Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Speed 35 feet
Support Benefit Your boar gores your foes. Until the start of
your next turn, your Strikes that damage a creature in
your boar’s reach also deal 1d6 persistent bleed damage. If
your boar is nimble or savage, the persistent bleed damage
increases to 2d6.
Advanced Maneuver Boar Charge
BOAR CHARGE [two-actions]
The boar Strides twice in a straight line and then makes a
tusk Strike. As long as it moved at least 20 feet, it gains a +2
circumstance bonus to its attack roll.
Cat
Your companion is a big cat, such as a leopard or tiger.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws (finesse), Damage 1d6 piercing
Melee [one-action] claw (agile, finesse), Damage 1d4 slashing
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +1, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
Hit Points 4
Skill Stealth
Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet)
Speed 35 feet

Special Your cat deals 1d4 extra precision damage against off-
guard targets.

Support Benefit Your cat throws your enemies off-balance
when you create an opening. Until the start of your next
turn, your Strikes that deal damage to a creature within
your cat’s reach make the target off-guard until the end of
your next turn.
Advanced Maneuver Cat Pounce
CAT POUNCE [one-action]
FLOURISH
The cat Strides and then Strikes. If it was undetected at the start
of its Cat Pounce, it remains undetected until after the attack.
Crocodile
Your companion is a crocodile or a similar crocodilian reptile,
such as an alligator or caiman.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 1d8 piercing
Melee [one-action] tail (agile), Damage 1d6 bludgeoning
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Stealth
Senses low-light vision
Speed 20 feet, swim 25 feet
Special The crocodile can hold its breath for about 2 hours.
Support Benefit Your crocodile clamps its jaws on your foe,
refusing to let go. Until the start of your next turn, if your
Strike damages a creature in your crocodile’s reach, your
crocodile can latch onto the creature. While thus attached, the
crocodile can move along with the target whenever the target
moves until the end of your next turn. Your crocodile can latch
onto only one creature in this way, and it must release the
creature to make a jaws Strike. If the target is smaller than
the crocodile, it takes a –10-foot circumstance penalty to its
Speeds and can’t Fly while the crocodile is latched on.
Advanced Maneuver Death Roll
DEATH ROLL [one-action]
Requirements The crocodile has a creature grabbed.
The crocodile tucks its legs and rolls rapidly, twisting its victim.
It makes a jaws Strike with a +2 circumstance bonus to the
attack roll against the grabbed creature. If it hits, it also knocks
the creature prone. If it misses, it releases the creature.
Dromaeosaur
Your companion is a dromaeosaur (also called a raptor), such as
a velociraptor or deinonychus.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws (finesse), Damage 1d8 piercing
Melee [one-action] talon (agile, finesse), Damage 1d6 slashing
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Stealth
Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet)
Speed 50 feet
Support Benefit Your raptor constantly darts into flanking
position. Until the start of your next turn, it counts as being
in its space or an empty space of your choice within 10 feet
when determining whether you and your companion
are flanking; you can choose a different space for each
of your attacks.
Advanced Maneuver Darting Attack
DARTING ATTACK [one-action]
FLOURISH
The raptor Steps up to 10 feet and then Strikes,
or Strikes and then Steps up to 10 feet.
Horse
Your companion is a horse, pony, or similar equine.
Size Medium or Large
Melee [one-action] hoof (agile), Damage 1d6 bludgeoning
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 8
Skill Survival
Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet)
Speed 40 feet
Special mount
Support Benefit Until the start of your next turn, if you’re
mounted on your horse and moved 10 feet or more on the

action before a melee Strike, add a circumstance bonus to
damage for that Strike equal to twice the number of weapon
damage dice. If your weapon already has the jousting weapon
trait, increase the trait’s damage bonus by 2 per die instead.
Advanced Maneuver Gallop
GALLOP [two-actions]
MOVE
The horse Strides twice at a +10-foot circumstance bonus
to Speed.
Riding Drake
UNCOMMON DRAGON
Your companion is a swift, flightless drake with limited
intelligence, less vicious than most drakes but fiercely
loyal to you. A riding drake has the dragon trait instead of
the animal trait, but it otherwise functions normally as an
animal companion.
Size Large
Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 1d8 piercing
Melee [one-action] tail, Damage 1d6 bludgeoning
Str +2, Dex +1, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +2
Hit Points 8
Skill Intimidation
Senses darkvision
Speed 45 feet
Special mount
Support Benefit Your drake snorts fire in your foes’ faces. Until
the start of your next turn, each time you Strike while riding
the drake and hit a creature in the drake’s reach, the creature
takes 1d4 fire damage from the drake. If your drake is nimble
or savage, the fire damage increases to 2d4.
Advanced Maneuver Fire Breath
FIRE BREATH [two-actions]
Frequency once per hour
The riding drake breathes a 30-foot cone of fire, dealing 1d6 fire
damage for every 2 levels the drake has to all creatures in the
area (basic Reflex save). This uses a trained DC using the drake’s
Constitution modifier or an expert DC if the drake is specialized.
Scorpion
Your companion is one of the various species of giant scorpion.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] stinger, Damage 1d6 piercing plus poison (see Special)
Melee [one-action] pincer (agile), Damage 1d6 slashing
Str +3, Dex +3, Con +1, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Stealth
Senses darkvision
Speed 30 feet
Special The scorpion’s stinger attack deals an additional 1d4
poison damage or 2d4 poison damage if the scorpion is a
specialized companion.
Support Benefit Your scorpion drips poison from its stinger when
you create an opening. Until the start of your next turn, your
Strikes that damage a creature in your scorpion’s reach also
deal 1d6 persistent poison damage. If your scorpion is nimble
or savage, the persistent poison damage increases to 2d6.
Advanced Maneuver Grab and Sting
GRAB AND STING [two-actions]
The scorpion holds its foe in place with its pincers in order to
sting it. It makes a pincer Strike. If the Strike hits, the target

creature automatically becomes grabbed by the scorpion, which
then makes a stinger Strike against it. The grabbed condition
lasts until the end of your next turn.
Shark
Your companion is a shark of any kind, such as a hammerhead,
great white, or jigsaw shark.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 1d8 piercing
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Stealth
Senses blood scent, scent (imprecise, 60 feet)
Speed swim 40 feet
Special The shark has the aquatic trait. Its blood scent enables it
to smell blood in the water from up to 1 mile away.
Support Benefit When your shark senses blood, it tears into
your enemies. Until the start of your next turn, each time
you hit a creature in the shark’s reach with a Strike and deal
slashing or piercing damage, the creature takes 1d8 slashing
damage from the shark. If your shark is nimble or savage, the
slashing damage increases to 2d8.
Advanced Maneuver Shred
SHRED [one-action]
Requirements The shark hit with a jaws Strike on its most
recent action this turn.
The shark viciously rips into the wound. The target of the shark’s
Strike takes 1d8 slashing damage (2d8 for a mature shark or
3d8 for a specialized companion).
Snake
Your companion is a constrictor snake, such as a boa or python.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws (finesse), Damage 1d8 piercing
Str +3, Dex +3, Con +1, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Stealth
Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet)
Speed 20 feet, climb 20 feet, swim 20 feet
Support Benefit Your snake holds your enemies with its coils,
interfering with reactions. Until the start of your next turn,
any creature your snake threatens can’t use reactions
triggered by your actions unless its level is higher than yours.
Advanced Maneuver Constrict
CONSTRICT [one-action]
Requirements The snake has a smaller creature grabbed.
The snake deals 12 bludgeoning damage to the grabbed creature;
the creature must attempt a basic Fortitude save against your
class DC. If the snake is a specialized animal companion, increase
this damage to 20.
Wolf
Your companion is a wolf, dog, or other canine.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws (finesse), Damage 1d8 piercing
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Survival
Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise, 30 feet)
Speed 40 feet
Support Benefit Your wolf tears tendons with each opening.
Until the start of your next turn, your Strikes that damage
creatures your wolf threatens give the target a –5-foot status
penalty to its Speeds for 1 minute (–10 on a critical success).
Advanced Maneuver Takedown
TAKEDOWN [one-action]
Requirements The animal companion’s last action was a
successful jaws Strike.
The wolf automatically knocks the target of its jaws Strike prone.
Companion Advancement
You can advance an animal companion, usually due to one
of your class feat choices. Normally, you can advance a
young animal companion to a mature animal companion,
advance a mature companion to either a nimble or savage
companion, and advance a nimble or savage companion
into a specialized companion.
Mature Animal Companions
When you advance a young animal companion to a mature
animal companion:
• If your companion is Medium or smaller, it grows by
one size.
• Increase its Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, and
Wisdom modifiers by 1.
• Increase its proficiency rank for Perception and all
saving throws to expert. Increase its proficiency ranks
in Intimidation, Stealth, and Survival to trained, and
if it was already trained in one of those skills from its
type, increase its proficiency rank in that skill to expert.
• Increase its unarmed attack damage from one die to
two dice (for instance 1d8 to 2d8)
Nimble Animal Companions
To advance a mature animal companion to a nimble
animal companion:
• Increase its Dexterity modifier by 2 and its Strength,
Constitution, and Wisdom modifiers by 1.
• Increase its proficiency ranks in Acrobatics to expert.
• It deals 2 additional damage with its unarmed
attacks. Its attacks become magical for the purpose of
ignoring resistances.
• It learns the advanced maneuver for its type.
Savage Animal Companions
To advance a mature animal companion to a savage animal
companion:
• If your companion is Medium or smaller, it grows by
one size.

• Increase its Strength modifier by 2 and its Dexterity,
Constitution, and Wisdom modifiers by 1.
• Increase its proficiency rank in Athletics to expert.
• It deals 3 additional damage with its unarmed
attacks. Its attacks become magical for the purpose of
ignoring resistances.
• It learns the advanced maneuver for its type.
Specialized Animal Companions
Specialized animal companions are more intelligent
and engage in more complex behaviors. Most animal
companions can have only one specialization. The first time
an animal gains a specialization, it also gains the following.
• Its proficiency rank for unarmed attacks increases
to expert.
• Its proficiency ranks for saving throws and Perception
increase to master.
• Increase its Dexterity modifier by 1 and its Intelligence
modifier by 2.
• Its unarmed attack damage increases from two dice to
three dice, and it increases its additional damage with
unarmed attacks from 2 to 4 or from 3 to 6.
• The extra benefit of the specialization listed below.
Ambusher: In your companion’s natural environment,
it can use a Sneak action even if it’s currently observed. Its
proficiency rank in Stealth increases to expert (or master
if it was already an expert from its type), and its Dexterity
modifier increases by 1. Its proficiency rank for unarmored
defense increases to expert.
Bully: Your companion terrorizes foes with dominance
displays and pushes them around the battlefield. Its
proficiency ranks for Athletics and Intimidation increase to
expert (or master if it was already expert from its type), its
Strength modifier increases by 1, and its Charisma modifier
increases by 3.
Daredevil: Your companion joins the fray with graceful
leaps and dives. It gains the deny advantage ability, so it
isn’t off-guard to hidden, undetected, or flanking creatures
unless such a creature’s level is greater than yours. Its
proficiency rank in Acrobatics increases to master, and its
Dexterity modifier increases by 1. Its proficiency rank in
unarmored defense increases to expert.
Racer: Your companion races. It gains a +10-foot status
bonus to its Speed, swim Speed, or fly Speed (your choice).
Its proficiency in Fortitude saves increases to legendary,
and its Constitution modifier increases by 1.
Tracker: Your companion is an incredible tracker. It can
move at full Speed while following tracks. Its proficiency
rank in Survival increases to expert (or master if it was
already an expert from its type), and its Wisdom modifier
increases by 1.
Wrecker: Your companion smashes things. Its unarmed
attacks ignore half an object’s Hardness. Its Athletics
proficiency increases to master, and its Strength modifier
increases by 1.
Familiars
Familiars are mystically bonded creatures tied to your
magic. Most familiars were originally animals, though
the ritual of becoming a familiar makes them something
more. You gain the Pet general feat (page 259), except
that your pet has special abilities. Common choices for
familiars include bats, cats, foxes, ravens, and snakes.
Some familiars are different, usually described in the
ability that granted you a familiar; for example, a druid’s
leshy familiar has the plant or fungus trait instead of
animal. A familiar is different from a basic pet in the
following ways.
Modifiers and AC
For Perception, Acrobatics, and Stealth, you can have
your familiar use your spellcasting attribute modifier +
your level instead of 3 + your level if it’s higher.
Communication
Your familiar can communicate empathically with you
as long as it’s within 1 mile of you, sharing emotions. It
doesn’t understand or speak languages normally, but it
can gain speech from a familiar ability.
Selecting Familiar and Master Abilities
Instead of choosing two abilities only when you gain
your familiar as you do with a normal pet, you can
choose the two abilities each day during your daily

preparations. You can choose from familiar abilities and
master abilities. You can choose the pet abilities from
the feat as familiar abilities as well. You can’t swap out
abilities that are innate to your familiar. For example,
you couldn’t choose not to give a raven familiar flying.
Familiar Abilities
Familiar abilities primarily affect the familiar
itself. A familiar can have no more than one ability
that changes its creature trait (such as construct
or plant). You can choose a pet ability (from the
Pet feat, page 259) as a familiar ability: amphibious,
burrower, climber, darkvision, echolocation, fast
movement, flier, manual dexterity, scent, or tough (see
the sidebar).
Accompanist: Your familiar helps you perform.
Whenever you attempt a Performance check, if your
familiar is nearby and can act, it accompanies you with
chirps, claps, or its own miniature instrument. This
grants you a +1 circumstance bonus, or +2 if you’re a
master in Performance.
Construct: Your familiar has the construct trait
instead of the animal trait. The familiar is immune
to death effects, disease, doomed, drained, fatigued,
healing, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed, poison, sickened,
spirit, unconscious, vitality, and void. Your familiar
must have the tough pet ability (page 259) to select this.
Damage Avoidance: Choose one type of save. Your
familiar takes no damage when it rolls a success on that
type of save; this doesn’t prevent effects other than damage.
Dragon: Your familiar has the dragon trait instead of
the animal trait.
Elemental: Your familiar has the elemental trait
instead of the animal trait. Choose air, earth, fire, metal,
water, or wood. Your familiar gains that trait. The
familiar is immune to bleed, paralyzed, poison, sleep,
and the element matching its trait. Your familiar must
have the resistance familiar ability to select this.
Focused Rejuvenation: When you Refocus, you
generate magical energy that heals your familiar.
Your familiar regains 1 Hit Point per level whenever
you Refocus.
Fungus: Your familiar has the fungus trait instead of
the animal trait.
Independent: In an encounter, if you don’t Command
your familiar, it still gains 1 action each round. Typically,
you still decide how it spends that action, but, the GM
might determine that your familiar chooses its own
tactics rather than performing your preferred action.
This doesn’t work with valet or similar abilities that
require a command, if you’re capable of riding your
familiar, or similar situations.
Kinspeech: Your familiar can understand and speak
with animals of the same species. To select this, your
familiar must be an animal, it must have the speech
ability, and you must be at least 6th level.
Major Resistance: Your familiar increases the
resistance it gains from its resistance familiar ability to
a value equal to your level. To select this you must be at
least 8th level.
Master’s Form: Your familiar can change shape as
a single action, transforming into a humanoid of your
ancestry with the same age, gender, and build of its true
form, though it always maintains a clearly unnatural
remnant of its nature, such as a cat’s eyes or a serpent’s
tongue. This form is always the same each time it uses
this ability. This otherwise uses the effects of humanoid
form, except the change is purely cosmetic. It only
appears humanoid and gains no new capabilities. Your
familiar must have the manual dexterity and speech
abilities to select this.
Partner in Crime: Your familiar is your criminal
associate. Despite being a minion, your familiar gains
1 reaction at the start of its turns, which it can use only
to Aid you on a Deception or Thievery skill check (it
still has to prepare to help you as normal for the Aid
reaction). It automatically succeeds at its check to Aid
you with those skills or automatically critically succeeds
if you’re a master of the skill in question.
Plant: Your familiar has the plant trait instead of the
animal trait.
Plant Form: Your plant familiar can change shape as
a single action, transforming into a Tiny plant of a type
roughly similar to the familiar’s nature. This otherwise
uses the effects of one with plants. You must have a
familiar with the plant trait to select this ability.
Resistance: Choose two of the following: acid, cold,
electricity, fire, poison, or sonic. Your familiar gains
resistance equal to half your level (minimum resistance 1)
against the chosen damage types.
Skilled: Choose a skill other than Acrobatics or
Stealth. Your familiar’s modifier for that skill is equal
to your level plus your spellcasting attribute modifier,
rather than just your level. You can select this ability
repeatedly, choosing a different skill each time.
Speech: Your familiar understands and speaks a
language you know.
Spellcasting: Choose a spell in your repertoire or that
you prepared today at least 5 levels lower than your
highest-rank spell slot. Your familiar can Cast that Spell
once per day using your magical tradition, spell attack
modifier, and spell DC. If the spell has a drawback
that affects the caster, both you and your familiar are
affected. You must be able to cast 6th-rank spells using
spell slots to select this.
Toolbearer: Your familiar can carry a toolkit of up to
light Bulk. So long as your familiar is adjacent to you,
you can draw and replace the tools as part of the action
that uses them as if you were wearing them. Your familiar
must have the manual dexterity ability to select this.
Touch Telepathy: Your familiar can telepathically
communicate with you via touch. If it also has the speech

ability, it can telepathically communicate via touch with
any creature if they share a language.
Valet: You can command your familiar to deliver you
items more efficiently. Your familiar doesn’t use its 2
actions immediately upon your command. Instead, up
to twice before the end of your turn, you can have your
familiar Interact to retrieve an item of light or negligible
Bulk you are wearing and place it into one of your free
hands. The familiar can’t use this ability to retrieve
stowed items. If the familiar has a different number of
actions, it can retrieve one item for each action it has
when commanded this way.
PET FEAT ABILITIES

The following abilities you can choose from the Pet
general feat (page 259) are repeated here for convenience.
• Amphibious It gains the amphibious trait, allowing it
to breathe in both air and water, and has both a land
Speed and a swim Speed, each equal to its highest land
Speed or swim Speed.
• Burrower It gains a burrow Speed of 5 feet, allowing it
to dig Tiny holes.
• Climber It gains a climb Speed of 25 feet.
• Darkvision It gains darkvision.
• Echolocation It can use hearing as a precise sense
within 20 feet.
• Fast Movement Increase one of the pet’s Speeds from
25 feet to 40 feet.
• Flier It gains a fly Speed of 25 feet.
• Manual Dexterity It can use up to two of its limbs as if
they were hands to perform manipulate actions.
• Scent It can use scent as an imprecise sense within
30 feet
• Tough Your pet’s max HP increase by 2 per level.
TARGETING COMPANIONS

Some spells and abilities can affect your companion. When
“companion” is used in a stat block, it refers to animal
companions, familiars, and types of companions appearing
in other books—such as elemental companions. Some
spells are even more specific. For example, if the spell says,
“Targets your familiar,” you could cast it only on a familiar,
not other kinds of companions. If you Cast a Spell that can
benefit only a type of creature you don’t have, such as
Casting a Spell that can target only a familiar when you
don’t have a familiar, the spell does nothing.
If the spell would affect an ability the creature doesn’t
have, the spell doesn’t give the creature that ability
unless the spell says it does. For example, a spell that
causes your companion to make a Strike wouldn’t let a
familiar make a Strike but would give it all other benefits
of the spell.
Master Abilities
Master abilities primarily affect you or the magic that
passes between you and your familiar.
Absorb Familiar: Your familiar can transform into
a mark you carry on your flesh, typically seeming like
a birthmark, tattoo, or gem that vaguely resembles its
normal form. When transformed, the familiar can’t act

except to turn back into a familiar. It isn’t affected by area
effects and must be targeted separately to affect it, which
requires knowledge that it’s a creature. This means you
and your allies can heal or assist the familiar while most
enemies stay unaware of its true nature. Creatures must
attempt a DC 20 Perception check to Seek to realize a it is
actually a familiar. Your familiar can still communicate its
feelings empathically. Transforming the familiar between
forms is a 1-minute activity that has the concentrate trait.
Cantrip Connection: You can prepare an additional
cantrip or, if you have a repertoire, designate a cantrip to
add to your repertoire every time you select this ability; you
can retrain it but can’t otherwise change it. You must be
able to prepare cantrips or add them to your repertoire to
select this.
Familiar Focus: Once per day, your familiar can use 2
actions with the concentrate trait to restore 1 Focus Point
to your focus pool, up to your usual maximum. You must
have a focus pool to select this.
Innate Surge: Once per day, you can draw upon your
familiar’s innate magic to replenish your own. You can
cast one innate spell gained from an ancestry feat that
you have already cast today. You must still Cast the Spell
and meet the spell’s other requirements.
Lifelink: If your familiar would be reduced to 0 HP
by damage, as a reaction with the concentrate trait, you
can take all the damage, and your familiar takes none.
However, special effects that would occur due to that
damage (such as snake venom) still apply.
Share Senses: Once every 10 minutes, you can use a single
action with the concentrate trait to project your senses into
your familiar. When you do, you lose all sensory information
from your own body, but can sense through your familiar’s
body for up to 1 minute. You can Dismiss this effect.
Spell Battery: You gain one additional spell slot at least
3 ranks lower than your highest-rank spell slot; you must
be able to cast 4th-rank spells using spell slots to select
this master ability.
Spell Delivery: If your familiar is in your space, you can
cast a spell with a range of touch, transfer its power to
your familiar, and command the familiar to deliver
the spell. If you do, the familiar uses its 2 actions
for the round to move to a target of your choice
and touch that target. If it doesn’t reach the target
to touch it this turn, the spell has no effect.
Recall Familiar: Once per day, you can use a
3-action activity, which has the concentrate trait,
to teleport your familiar to your space. Your
familiar must be within 1 mile or the attempt
to summon it fails. This is a teleportation effect.
Restorative Familiar: Once per day,
your familiar can use 2 actions with the
concentrate trait to give up some of its energy
and heal you. It must be in your space to do
so. You restore a number of Hit Points equal
to 1d8 times half your level (minimum 1d8).
ARCHETYPES
Character concepts come in infinite possibilities, but you might find that the feats and skill
choices from a single class aren’t sufficient to fully realize your character. Archetypes allow
you to expand the scope of your character’s class.
You gain an archetype by selecting archetype feats instead
of your normal feats. First, find the archetype that best
fits your character concept. Then select that archetype’s
dedication feat, using one of your class feat choices. Once
you’ve taken the dedication feat, you can select any feat
from that archetype, as long as you meet its prerequisites.
Most archetype feats are taken in place of class feats, and
so these are called archetype class feats.
An archetype feat is subject to any restrictions on the
class feat it replaces. For example, if you had an ability at
6th level that granted you a bonus class feat, but that class
feat had to be 4th level or lower and have the dwarf trait,
you could use that class feat to take an archetype class feat,
but only one of 4th level or lower with the dwarf trait.
Dedication Details
Each archetype’s dedication feat represents your character’s
dedicated effort learning a new set of abilities, making it
impossible to split your focus and pursue another archetype
at the same time. Once you take a dedication feat, you can’t
select a different dedication feat until you complete your
dedication by taking two other feats from your current
archetype. You can’t retrain a dedication feat as long as
you have any other feats from that archetype.
Multiclass Dedications
All archetypes in this book have the multiclass trait.
These allow you to diversify your training into another
class’s specialties. You can’t select a multiclass archetype’s
dedication feat if you are already a member of that class.
Additional Feats
Some archetypes include a list of “Additional Feats” that
appear in other sources. The list includes each feat’s level,
which might be different than normal when gained from
the archetype. You can take the feat as an archetype feat
of that level, meaning it counts toward the number of feats
required by the archetype’s dedication feat. When selected
this way, a feat that normally has a class’s trait (such as the
fighter trait) doesn’t have that class trait.
Feats that Grant Feats
Sometimes an archetype feat lets you select another feat,
such as a class feat of a lower level. You must always meet
any prerequisites of the feat you gain in this way. These
always count as only one feat for the purposes of your
dedication; for example, taking the cleric archetype’s Basic
Dogma feat to gain the Healing Hands class feat counts as
only one feat, not two.

Spellcasting Archetypes
Some archetypes grant you a substantial degree of
spellcasting, albeit delayed compared to a character from
a spellcasting class. A spellcasting archetype allows you
to use scrolls, staves, and wands in the same way that a
member of a spellcasting class can.
Spellcasting archetypes always grant the ability to cast
cantrips in their dedication, and then they have a basic
spellcasting feat, an expert spellcasting feat, and a master
spellcasting feat. These feats share their name with the
archetype; for instance, the druid’s master spellcasting feat
is called Master Druid Spellcasting. All spell slots you gain
from spellcasting archetypes are subject to the restrictions
within the archetype. For instance, the witch archetype
allows you to pick a patron when you take its dedication
feat. If you pick patron granting occult spells, the archetype
then grants you spell slots you can use only to cast occult
spells you prepare as a witch, even if you are a bard with
occult spells in your repertoire.
Basic Spellcasting Feat: Usually available at 4th level,
these feats grant a 1st-rank spell slot. At 6th level, they
grant you a 2nd-rank spell slot, and if you have a spell
repertoire, you can select one spell from your repertoire as
a signature spell. At 8th level, they grant you a 3rd-rank
spell slot. Archetypes refer to these benefits as the “basic
spellcasting benefits.”
Expert Spellcasting Feat: Typically taken at 12th level,
these feats make you an expert in spell attack rolls and DCs

of the appropriate magical tradition and grant you a 4th-
rank spell slot. If you have a spell repertoire, you can select

a second spell from your repertoire as a signature spell. At
14th level, they grant you a 5th-rank spell slot, and at 16th
level, they grant you a 6th-rank spell slot. Archetypes refer
to these benefits as the “expert spellcasting benefits.”
Master Spellcasting Feat: Usually found at 18th level,
these feats make you a master in spell attack rolls and DCs

of the appropriate magical tradition and grant you a 7th-
rank spell slot. If you have a spell repertoire, you can select

a third spell from your repertoire as a signature spell. At
20th level, they grant you an 8th-rank spell slot. Archetypes
refer to these benefits as the “master spellcasting benefits.”
Special Archetypes
Some archetype feats in other books have the skill trait,
allowing you to take them in place of a skill feat rather than
a class feat. A skill feat still counts to satisfy the requirement
of the dedication. There are also class archetypes that can
modify your class’s abilities as soon as 1st level. You can
never have more than one class archetype.
Bard
A muse has called you to dabble in occult lore, allowing
you to cast a few spells. The deeper you delve, the more
powerful your performances become.
Multiclass Bard Characters
The bard archetype grants knowledge and powerful
compositions that support your allies, whether from the
front line or at a safe distance. These compositions use
actions; making them a great choice if you have actions
to spare.
BARD DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Charisma +2
You cast spells like a bard and gain the Cast a Spell activity.
You gain a spell repertoire with two common cantrips from
the occult spell list or any other occult cantrips you’ve learned
or discovered. You’re trained in the spell attack modifier and
spell DC statistics. Your key spellcasting attribute for bard
archetype spells is Charisma, and they are occult bard spells.
You become trained in Occultism and Performance; for each
of these skills in which you were already trained, you instead
become trained in a skill of your choice.
Choose a muse as you would if you were a bard. You can
take that muse’s feats, but you don’t gain the starting feat,
spell or any other abilities the choice of muse grants.

BASIC BARD SPELLCASTING FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Bard Dedication
You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 215). Each time
you gain a spell slot of a new rank from the bard archetype,
add a common occult spell of the appropriate rank, or
another appropriate occult spell you learned or discovered,
to your repertoire.
BASIC MUSE’S WHISPERS FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Bard Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level bard feat.
ADVANCED MUSE’S WHISPERS FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Muse’s Whispers
You gain one bard feat. For the purpose of meeting its
prerequisites, your bard level is equal to half your character
level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you select it, you gain another bard feat.
COUNTER PERFORM FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Bard Dedication
You gain the counter performance composition spell (page
370). This is a focus spell, granting you a focus pool or
expanding that pool. You can Refocus by engaging your
muse. (For more on focus spells, see page 298.)
ANTHEMIC PERFORMANCE FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Bard Dedication
Your music, speech, or other performance inspires your
allies to dive into battle. You gain the courageous anthem
composition cantrip (page 370).
OCCULT BREADTH FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Bard Spellcasting
Your repertoire expands, and you can cast more occult spells
each day. Increase the number of spells in your repertoire
and the number of spell slots you gain from bard archetype
feats by 1 for each spell rank other than your two highest
bard spell slots.
EXPERT BARD SPELLCASTING FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Bard Spellcasting, master in Occultism
You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 215).
MASTER BARD SPELLCASTING FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Expert Bard Spellcasting, legendary in Occultism
You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 215).
Cleric
You are an ordained priest of your deity and have even
learned how to cast a few divine spells. Though your
main training lies elsewhere, your religious calling
provides you divine gifts.
Multiclass Cleric Characters
Although many characters profess faith in the gods,
the cleric archetype represents a character of another
class who’s been acknowledged by a particular deity
and granted divine spellcasting. Before a character takes
the cleric archetype, it’s important to consider the god’s
anathema and whether they’ll be able to avoid it. The
many domains available to clerics of different deities
also present a variety of options for focus spells.
• Martial clerics are typically looking for a potent
domain spell or some healing to use in a pinch.
• Divine witch clerics double down as the ultimate
divine spellcasters.
• Other spellcaster clerics diversify their options,
becoming theurgic characters who combine two
magical traditions.
CLERIC DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Wisdom +2
You cast spells like a cleric. You gain the Cast a Spell activity.
You can prepare two common cantrips each day from the
divine spell list or any other divine cantrips you have access
to. You’re trained in the spell attack modifier and spell DC
statistics. Your key spellcasting attribute for cleric archetype
spells is Wisdom, and they are divine cleric spells.
Choose a deity as you would if you were a cleric. You
become bound by that deity’s anathema and can receive that
deity’s divine sanctification. You become trained in Religion
and your deity’s associated skill; for each of these skills in
which you were already trained, you instead become trained
in a skill of your choice. You don’t gain any other abilities
from your choice of deity.
BASIC CLERIC SPELLCASTING FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Cleric Dedication
You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 215). You
can prepare your deity’s spells in your spell slots of the
appropriate rank from the cleric archetype.
BASIC DOGMA FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Cleric Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level cleric feat.
ADVANCED DOGMA FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Dogma
You gain one cleric feat. For the purpose of meeting

its prerequisites, your cleric level is equal to half your
character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you select it, you gain another cleric feat.
DIVINE BREADTH FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Cleric Spellcasting
As your understanding increases, your god grants you more
divine spells each day. Increase the spell slots you gain from
cleric archetype feats by 1 for each spell rank other than your
two highest cleric spell slots.
EXPERT CLERIC SPELLCASTING FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Cleric Spellcasting, master in Religion
You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 215).
MASTER CLERIC SPELLCASTING FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Expert Cleric Spellcasting, legendary in
Religion
You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 215).
Druid
You have entered a druidic circle and learned a few of
the order’s secrets, granting you primal power.
Multiclass Druid characters
The druid archetype can provide a bit of healing or
elemental damage and can increase your utility in a
natural environment with spells like speak with animals
and one with stone.
DRUID DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Wisdom +2
You cast spells like a druid. You gain the Cast a Spell
activity. You can prepare two common cantrips each day
from the primal spell list or any other primal cantrips you
learn or discover. You’re trained in the spell attack modifier

and spell DC statistics. Your key spellcasting attribute for
druid archetype spells is Wisdom, and they are primal druid
spells.
You learn the Wildsong language, and you are bound by
the druid’s anathema.
Choose a druidic order. You become a member of that
order and are also bound by its specific anathema, allowing
you to take the order’s feats. You become trained in Nature
and your order’s associated skill; for each of these skills in
which you were already trained, you become trained in a skill
of your choice. You don’t gain any other abilities from your
choice of order.
BASIC DRUID SPELLCASTING FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Druid Dedication
You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 215).
BASIC WILDING FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Druid Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level druid feat.
ORDER SPELL FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Druid Dedication
You gain the initial order spell from your order. This is a focus
spell, granting you a focus pool or expanding that pool. You
can Refocus by being one with nature. (For more on focus
spells, see page 298.)
ADVANCED WILDING FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Wilding
You gain one druid feat. For the purpose of meeting
its prerequisites, your druid level is equal to half your
character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you select it, you gain another druid feat.
PRIMAL BREADTH FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Druid Spellcasting
Increase the spell slots you gain from druid archetype
feats by 1 for each spell rank other than your two
highest druid spell slots.
EXPERT DRUID SPELLCASTING FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Druid Spellcasting, master in Nature
You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 215).
MASTER DRUID SPELLCASTING FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Expert Druid Spellcasting, legendary in Nature
You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 215).
Fighter
You have spent time learning the art of warfare,
increasing your skill with martial arms and at wearing
armor. With further training, you can become a true
combat specialist.
Multiclass Fighter Characters
The fighter archetype grants access to great feats
for characters focusing on any combat style, and it’s
particularly helpful for characters looking to diversify
their offensive abilities or focus on more powerful
weapons.
• Bard fighters lead warriors from the front, using
their martial skills to stay in the thick of combat
where their audience is.
• Cleric fighters focus on a style of combat exemplified
by their deity. A shield-using warpriest benefits
from the best of both worlds in shield feats.
• Ranger fighters can either specialize in archery or
use their fighter feats to pick up an unusual combat
style combination.
• Rogue fighters can make good use of fighter’s
free hand, two-weapon fighting, or archery feats.
Making multiple Strikes can serve them well.
• Spellcaster fighters benefit greatly from the
additional weapon proficiencies, and fighter is a
solid choice for any spellcaster of a particularly
martial bent.
FIGHTER DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Strength +2, Dexterity +2
You become trained in martial weapons. You become trained
in your choice of Acrobatics or Athletics; if you are already
trained in both of these skills, you instead become trained
in a skill of your choice. You become trained in fighter
class DC.
BASIC MANEUVER FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Fighter Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level fighter feat.
FIGHTER RESILIENCY FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Fighter Dedication, class granting no more Hit
Points per level than 8 + your Constitution modifier
You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each fighter archetype
class feat you have. As you continue selecting fighter
archetype class feats, you continue to gain additional Hit
Points in this way.
REACTIVE STRIKER FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Fighter Dedication
You gain the Reactive Strike reaction, found on page 138.

ADVANCED MANEUVER FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Maneuver
You gain a fighter feat. For the purpose of meeting its
prerequisites, your fighter level is equal to half your
character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time you
select it, you gain another fighter feat.
DIVERSE WEAPON EXPERT FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Fighter Dedication, expert in any kind of weapon
or unarmed attack
Your proficiency ranks for simple weapons and martial
weapons increase to expert, and your proficiency rank for
advanced weapons increases to trained.
Ranger
You have studied hunting, tracking, and wilderness
survival, adding a ranger’s tools to your skill set.
Your keen eyes while hunting prey help gather more
information.
Multiclass Ranger characters
The ranger archetype has access to excellent options to
improve a character’s monster knowledge and survival
skills, but ranger is of particular interest to any character
wanting to become a dedicated archer.
• Bard rangers support their allies and animal
companions with expanded combat options. The
bard’s knowledge can also complement the ranger’s
investigation of their foes.
• Cleric rangers are particularly fitting for deities
who connect thematically to nature or have a
bow as their favored weapon. (Or, in the case of
Erastil, both!)
• Druids have the most thematic overlap with rangers

among the spellcasters, allowing you to create a
true master of the wilderness.
• Fighter rangers are among the most fearsome
archers, combining the feats from both classes to
create a fighting style unique to each fighter ranger.
Some warden spells can also be particularly helpful
to a fighter.
• Rogue rangers make excellent snipers or ranged
skirmishers, with their rogue skills naturally playing
into the ranger’s strengths.
• Witch rangers add a new prowess scouting to the
information they can gain through their familiar
and patron.
• Wizard rangers benefit greatly from ranger’s
feat support, backing up their spells with ranged
weapon attacks.
RANGER DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Dexterity +2
You become trained in Survival; if you were already trained
in Survival, you instead become trained in another skill of
your choice. You become trained in ranger class DC.
If you gain a warden spell through this archetype,
you become trained in spell attacks and spell DCs.
Your spellcasting attribute is Wisdom.
You can use the Hunt Prey action (page 154).
BASIC HUNTER’S TRICK FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Ranger Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level ranger feat.
RANGER RESILIENCY FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Ranger Dedication, class
granting no more Hit Points per level than

8 + your Constitution modifier
You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each ranger archetype
class feat you have. As you continue selecting ranger
archetype class feats, you continue to gain additional Hit
Points in this way.
ADVANCED HUNTER’S TRICK FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Hunter’s Trick
You gain one ranger feat. For the purpose of meeting
its prerequisites, your ranger level is equal to half your
character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time you
select it, you gain another ranger feat.
MASTER SPOTTER FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Ranger Dedication, expert in Perception
Your proficiency rank in Perception increases to master.
Rogue
You’ve learned to sneak, steal, and disable traps.
With time and luck, you’ll become capable of moving
through the shadows, striking unseen, and escaping
without notice.
Multiclass Rogue characters
Nearly any character can benefit from the many skills
and tricks the rogue archetype grants.
• Bard rogues expand their robust base of skills.
They are also well-suited to take advantage of
the distractions caused by their performances and
otherwise apply their skills to combat.
• Cleric rogues often follow gods that support
trickery in combat, such as Calistria, learning a
combat style that fits their god. However, many
clerics might need stealth and trickery when their
voices are unwelcome.
• Druid rogues can ambush foes in other forms,
seamlessly fading into the shadows of the natural
world.
• Fighter rogues combine the fighter’s accuracy with
extra damage, a deadly combination for archers or
finesse fighters.
• Ranger rogues benefit from the shared focus on
trailing foes and catching them off-guard. The
flurry edge can get you many sneak attacks, and the
precision edge doubles down on precision damage.
• Witch rogues apply the hexes of their patrons from
the shadows and improve many of the
simple weapons they’re trained in.
• Wizard rogues use the rogue multiclass to
shore up skills or to pick up tricky rogue feats to
help keep them safe.
ROGUE DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Dexterity +2
You gain a skill feat and the rogue’s surprise attack class
feature (page 167). You become trained in light armor. In
addition, you become trained in Stealth or Thievery plus one
skill of your choice; if you are already trained in both Stealth
and Thievery, you become trained in an additional skill of
your choice. You become trained in rogue class DC.
BASIC TRICKERY FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Rogue Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level rogue feat.
SNEAK ATTACKER FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Rogue Dedication
You gain the sneak attack class feature (page 167), except it
deals 1d4 damage, increasing to 1d6 at 6th level. You don’t
increase the number of dice as you gain levels.

ADVANCED TRICKERY FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Trickery
You gain one rogue feat. For the purpose of meeting
its prerequisites, your rogue level is equal to half your
character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you select it, you gain another rogue feat.
SKILL MASTERY FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Rogue Dedication, trained in at least one skill
and expert in at least one skill
Increase your proficiency rank in one of your skills from
expert to master and in another of your skills from trained to
expert. You gain a skill feat associated with one of the skills
you chose; you must meet all its prerequisites.
Special You can select this feat up to five times.
UNCANNY DODGE FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Rogue Dedication
You gain the deny advantage class feature (page 167).
EVASIVENESS FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Rogue Dedication, expert in Reflex saves
Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to master.
Witch
You have heard the whispers of a distant patron, who
sent an emissary to teach you powerful magic.
Multiclass Witch Characters
The witch archetype grants versatile prepared spells,
perfect for characters looking to add some extra utility.
WITCH DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Intelligence +2
You cast spells like a witch. Choose a patron; you gain a
familiar with two common cantrips of your choice from your

chosen patron’s tradition, but aside from the tradition, you
don’t gain any other effects the patron would usually grant.
Your familiar gains the normal number of abilities for a
familiar instead of those a witch familiar normally gets. (See
page 212 for more on familiars.)
You gain the Cast a Spell activity. You can prepare one
cantrip each day from your familiar. You’re trained in the spell
attack modifier and spell DC statistics. Your key spellcasting
attribute for witch archetype spells is Intelligence, and they
are witch spells of your patron’s tradition. You become trained
in the skill associated with the patron’s tradition; if you were
already trained in it, you instead become trained in a skill of
your choice.
BASIC WITCH SPELLCASTING FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Witch Dedication
You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 215).
Each time you gain a spell slot of a new rank from the
witch archetype, add two common spells of that rank to
your familiar.
BASIC WITCHCRAFT FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Witch Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level witch feat of your choice.
You can select three familiar abilities for your familiar
each day, instead of two.
ADVANCED WITCHCRAFT FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Witchcraft
You gain one witch feat. For the purpose of meeting
its prerequisites, your witch level is equal to half your
character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you select it, you gain another witch feat.
PATRON’S BREADTH FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Witch Spellcasting
You can cast more spells each day. Increase the spell slots
you gain from witch archetype feats by 1 for each spell rank
other than your two highest spell ranks.
EXPERT WITCH SPELLCASTING FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Witch Spellcasting, master in the skill
associated with your patron’s tradition
You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 215).
MASTER WITCH SPELLCASTING FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Expert Witch Spellcasting, legendary in the
skill associated with your patron’s tradition
You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 215).
Wizard
You have dabbled in the arcane arts and, through discipline
and academic study, learned how to cast a few spells.
Multiclass Wizard Characters
The wizard archetype grants versatile prepared spells,
perfect for characters looking to add some extra utility.
WIZARD DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Intelligence +2
You cast spells like a wizard, gaining a spellbook with
four common arcane cantrips of your choice. You gain
the Cast a Spell activity. You can prepare two cantrips
each day from your spellbook. You’re trained in the spell
attack modifier and spell DC statistics. Your key
spellcasting attribute for wizard archetype spells
is Intelligence, and they are arcane wizard spells.
You become trained in Arcana; if you were already
trained in Arcana, you instead become trained in a
skill of your choice. Select a school; you don’t gain any
abilities from your choice of school, but qualify for feats
as a member.
ARCANE SCHOOL SPELL FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Wizard Dedication
You gain your school’s initial school spell. If you don’t
already have one, you gain a focus pool of 1 Focus Point,
which you can Refocus by studying.
BASIC ARCANA FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Wizard Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level wizard feat of your choice.
BASIC WIZARD SPELLCASTING FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Wizard Dedication
You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 215). Each time
you gain a spell slot of a new rank from the wizard archetype,
add two common spells of that rank to your spellbook.
ADVANCED ARCANA FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Arcana
You gain one wizard feat. For the purpose of meeting
its prerequisites, your wizard level is equal to half your
character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you select it, you gain another wizard feat.
ARCANE BREADTH FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Wizard Spellcasting
Your thorough studies allow you to cast more arcane spells

each day. Increase the spell slots you gain from wizard
archetype feats by 1 for each spell rank other than your two
highest wizard spell slots.
EXPERT WIZARD SPELLCASTING FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Wizard Spellcasting, master in Arcana
You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 215).
MASTER WIZARD SPELLCASTING FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Expert Wizard Spellcasting, legendary in
Arcana
You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 215).
