CHAPTER 8:

PLAYING THE GAME
At this point, you have a character and are ready to play Pathfinder! Or maybe you’re the
GM and you’re getting ready to run your first adventure. Either way, this chapter provides
the full details for the rules outlined in Chapter 1. This chapter begins by describing the
general rules and conventions of how the game is played and then presents more in-depth
explanations of the rules for each mode of play.
Before diving into how to play Pathfinder, it’s important to
understand the game’s three modes of play, which determine
the pace of your adventure and the specific rules you’ll use
at a given time. Each mode provides a different pace and
presents a different level of risk to your characters. The
Game Master (GM) determines which mode works best
for the story and controls the transition between them.
You’ll likely talk about the modes less formally during your
play session, simply transitioning between exploration
and encounters during the adventure, before heading to a
settlement to achieve something during downtime.
The most intricate of the modes is encounter mode. This
is where most of the intense action takes place, and it’s most
often used for combat or other high-stakes situations. The
GM typically switches to encounter mode by calling on
the players to “roll for initiative” to determine the order in
which all the actors take their turns during the encounter.
Time is then divided into a series of rounds, each lasting
roughly 6 seconds in the game world. Each round, player
characters, other creatures, and sometimes even hazards
or events take their turn in initiative order. At the start
of a participant’s turn, they gain the use of a number of
actions (typically 3 in the case of PCs and other creatures)
as well as a special action called a reaction. These actions,
and what you do with them, are how you affect the world
within an encounter. The full rules for playing in encounter
mode start on page 435.
In exploration mode, time is more flexible and the play
more free-form. Minutes, hours, or even days in the game
world pass quickly in the real world, as the characters
travel cross-country, explore uninhabited sections of a
dungeon, recover from a battle, or roleplay during a social
gathering. Often, developments during exploration lead to
encounters, and the GM will switch to that mode of play
until the encounter ends, before returning to exploration
mode. The rules for exploration start on page 438.
The third mode is downtime. During downtime, the
characters are at little risk, and the passage of time is
measured in days or longer. This is when you might forge
a magic sword, research a new spell, or prepare for your
next adventure. The rules for downtime are on page 440.
Sections covering each of the modes of play detail how
the structure of those modes works during a game session.
The other portions of this chapter explain rules that come
up throughout the course of the game.
Making Choices
Throughout the game, the GM describes what’s happening
in the world and then asks the players, “So what do you
do?” Exactly what you choose to do, and how the GM
responds to those choices, builds a unique story experience.
Every game is different, because you’ll rarely, if ever, make
the same decisions as another group of players. This is true
for the GM as well—two GMs running the exact same
adventure will put different emphasis and flourishes on the
way they present each scenario and encounter.
Often, your choices have no immediate risk or
consequences. If you’re traveling along a forest path and
come across a fork in the trail, the GM will ask, “Which
way do you go?” You might choose to take the right fork
or the left. You could also choose to leave the trail, or just
go back to town. Once your choice is made, the GM tells
you what happens next. Down the line, that choice may
impact what you encounter later in the game, but in many
cases nothing dangerous happens immediately.
But sometimes what happens as a result of your choices
is less than certain. In those cases, you’ll attempt a check,
as described starting on page 400.
The Pathfinder Baseline
Your group will likely talk about what types of content
you want in your game before your campaign begins. The
following is a set of basic assumptions that works for many
groups. The GM can find more guidance in GM Core.
• Bloodshed, injuries, and even dismemberment might
be described. However, excessive descriptions of gore
and cruelty should be avoided.
• Romantic and sexual relationships can happen in
the game, but players should avoid being overly
suggestive. Sex happens “off-screen.” One player
character attempting to initiate a relationship with
another should generally be avoided.
• Avoid excessively gross or scatological descriptions.
Player characters shouldn’t perform the following acts:
• Torture
• Rape, nonconsensual sexual contact, or sexual threats
• Harm to children, including sexual abuse
• Owning slaves or profiting from slavery
• Reprehensible uses of mind-control magic
Villains might engage in such acts “off-screen,” but many
groups choose to not have villains engage in these activities.
RULES OVERVIEW
This section summarizes the rules found elsewhere in this chapter.
Modes of Play
This game presents three main methods of structuring play.
Encounter mode (page 435) is highly structured and is most
often used for combat or stressful situations. Everyone in an
encounter rolls initiative (page 435) to determine the order
they act, with highest results going first. A participant takes
their turn when their initiative comes up (page 435). You
can Delay to change when you take your turn (416).
Exploration mode (page 438) takes place over minutes
or hours. You use your travel Speed if you’re moving, and
you engage in exploration activities like Avoiding Notice,
Detecting Magic, Scouting, or Searching. You can rest for
the night while exploring to recover HP and abilities, and
make daily preparations at the start of each day (page 439).
Downtime mode (page 440) takes place over days. You
might make money, train, or recover, among other things.
Actions
During an encounter, you get 3 actions and 1 reaction per
turn (page 435). Icons indicate whether your abilities take
a single action [one-action], 2 actions [two-actions], 3 actions [three-actions], a reaction
[reaction], or a free action [free-action]. Reactions have triggers (page 414),
allowing you to take them whenever they come up. The
Ready basic action (page 417) lets you prepare to use a
single action as a reaction. Free actions can have triggers like
reactions; a free action with no trigger can be used like a
single action, but don’t cost any of your actions for the turn.
The most important actions to learn are the basic actions
(page 416). Specialty basic actions come up less frequently,
and you typically won’t look them up until you need them.
Speaking (page 419) normally doesn’t take an action.
Related: Activities (page 414), disrupting actions (415)
Rolling Checks
An action that can potentially fail requires rolling a check
(page 400). Roll a d20 (20-sided die) and identify the
modifiers, bonuses, and penalties that apply. Then, calculate
the result, compare it to the DC (your target number), and
determine the degree of success and the effect.
Most checks are modified by your attribute modifier
(Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, or
Charisma) and your proficiency modifier (untrained, trained,
expert, master, or legendary) for the statistic. You might get a
circumstance, status, or item bonus or penalty as well.
The degrees of success (page 401) are critical success,
success, failure, and critical failure. You get a success if you
meet or exceed the DC, or a critical success if you exceed the
DC by 10 or more. If your result is lower than the DC, you
get a failure, or a critical failure if you failed by 10 or more.
Related: Flat checks (405), fortune and misfortune
(401), secret checks (405)
This section summarizes the rules found elsewhere in this chapter.
RULES OVERVIEW

Effects
An effect is the rules term for anything that occurs in the
game world. Effects might have limited range (page 426),
and you may need to designate targets (page 426) or create
areas (page 426) for your effects. Areas include bursts from
a single point, cones blasting out from you, emanations
surrounding you or another creature, or straight lines.
Effects that last for a period of time list a duration
(page 426). These can last a set increment of time, or can
end if certain requirements are met. Many effects apply
conditions (page 442), which measure advantages or
impediments like being blinded, frightened, or invisible.
Movement
Your Speed (page 420) governs how far you can move.
Stride (page 418) is an action that has the move trait and
allows you to move a number of feet up to your Speed. You
may need to Stride multiple times in a turn! Move actions
can often trigger reactions or free actions. However, unlike
other actions, a move action can trigger reactions not only
when you first use the action, but also for every 5 feet you
move during that action (page 422). The Step action (page
418) lets you move without triggering reactions, but only 5
feet. Other basic actions with the move trait include Crawl,
Drop Prone, and Stand (page 418).
This game measures movement on a grid (page 421).
Difficult terrain and other types of terrain (page 423) may
impede your movement.
Creatures can get tactical advantages by careful
positioning. The most common are using cover from terrain
and other creatures to increase your AC (page 424), and
flanking (page 425), which requires you and an ally to be
on the opposite sides of an enemy to reduce the enemy’s AC.
Related: Escape a grab or restraint (416), falling (421),
forced movement (422), moving through creatures (422),
special movement modes (burrow, climb, fly, and swim;
420), travel speed outside of encounters (438)
Attacking
Strike (page 418) actions have the attack trait and allow
you to attack with a weapon you’re wielding or an
unarmed attack (such as a fist). If you’re using a melee
weapon or unarmed attack, your target must be within
your reach (page 426); if you’re attacking with a ranged
weapon, your target must be within your range (page
526). Ranged weapons get less effective as you exceed
their range increments (page 403). Striking multiple times
in a turn has diminishing returns. A multiple attack penalty
(page 402) applies to each attack after the first.
Related: Cover (424), flanking enemies (425), spell
attacks (403), targeting creatures (426)
GAME CONVENTIONS

Pathfinder has many specific rules, but you’ll also want to keep these general guidelines in mind when playing.
The GM Has the Final Say

If you’re ever uncertain how to apply a rule, the GM decides.
Of course, Pathfinder is a game, so when adjudicating the
rules, the GM is encouraged to listen to everyone’s point of
view and make a decision that is both fair and fun.
Specific Overrides General
A core principle of Pathfinder is that specific rules override
general ones. If two rules conflict, the more specific
one takes precedence. If there’s still ambiguity, the GM
determines which rule to use. For example, the rules state
that when attacking a concealed creature, you must attempt
a DC 5 flat check to determine if you hit. Flat checks don’t
benefit from modifiers, bonuses, or penalties, but an ability
that’s specifically designed to overcome concealment might
override and alter this. While some special rules may also
state the normal rules to provide context, you should always
default to the general rules presented in this chapter, even if
effects don’t specifically say to.
Rounding

You may need to calculate a fraction of a value, like halving
damage. Always round down unless otherwise specified. For
example, if a spell deals 7 damage and a creature takes half
damage from it, that creature takes 3 damage.
Multiplying

When more than one effect would multiply the same
number, don’t multiply more than once. Instead, combine
all the multipliers into a single multiplier, with each multiple
after the first adding 1 less than its value. For instance, if
one ability doubled the duration of one of your spells and
another one doubled the duration of the same spell, you
would triple the duration, not quadruple it.
Duplicate Effects

When you’re affected by the same thing multiple times,
only one instance applies, using the higher level or rank
of the effects, or the newer effect if the two are equal. For
example, if you were using mystic armor and then cast it
again, you’d still benefit from only one casting of that spell.
Casting a spell again on the same target might get you a
better duration or effect if it were cast at a higher rank the
second time, but otherwise doing so gives you no advantage.

Ambiguous Rules

Sometimes a rule could be interpreted multiple ways. If one
version is too good to be true, it probably is. If a rule seems
to have wording with problematic repercussions or doesn’t
work as intended, work with your group to find a good
solution, rather than just playing with the rule as printed.
Defenses
Your Armor Class (AC) (page 404) is the main DC used
for attacks against you. You might also roll a type of check
called a saving throw (page 404), also called a save, against
spells, afflictions, and a wide variety of other effects. There
are three kinds of saving throw: Fortitude, Reflex, and Will.
Damage
Attacks, spells, and other dangers deal damage (page 406).
The amount is typically determined by a damage roll (page
406), which can use a variety of sizes and numbers of dice.
Damage reduces the Hit Points (HP) (page 410) that
measure a creature’s overall health or an object’s durability.
A creature might have immunity to damage or effects of
certain kinds, a resistance that reduces the damage it takes,
or a weakness that increases damage it takes (page 408).
These are typically keyed to damage types (page 409) such
as slashing damage or fire damage.
Related: Persistent damage condition (page 445)
Spells
Most of the rules for casting spells are in Chapter 7 (pages
296–303). For a spell that requires an attack roll against the
target’s AC, you’ll calculate your spell attack modifier (page

403). For one that causes its subject to attempt a saving
throw, you’ll need your spell DC (page 403).
Related: Dismiss and Sustain basic actions (419)
Skills
Skill checks are required for all sorts of other tasks related
to adventuring and life in general. Most of their rules are in
Chapter 4 (page 224). You’ll find the rules for calculating
skill modifiers on page 226. Many exploration activities
(page 438), such as Avoid Notice and Investigate, also use
skill checks.
Perception and Detection
Your Perception modifier (page 404) indicates how good
you are at noticing things around you. You typically use the
Seek basic action (page 417) to find physical things or the
Sense Motive basic action (page 417) in social situations.
While in exploration mode, the Search activity (page 439)
lets you keep an eye out for things around you.
Four main conditions indicate how well you can pinpoint
and target a creature: observed, hidden, undetected, and
unnoticed (page 434). A creature with the concealed or
invisible condition is harder to find and target (page 442).
Related: Light (page 432), special senses (page 433)
CHECKS
When success isn’t certain—whether you’re swinging a sword at a foul beast, attempting
to leap across a chasm, or straining to remember the name of the earl’s second cousin at a
soiree—you’ll attempt a check.
All types of checks, from skill checks to attack rolls to
saving throws, follow these basic steps.
1. Roll a d20 and identify the modifiers, bonuses, and
penalties that apply.
2. Calculate the result.
3. Compare to the DC.
4. Determine the degree of success and the effect.
Checks and Difficulty Classes (DC) both come in many
forms. When you swing your sword at that foul beast, you
make an attack roll against its Armor Class, which is the
DC to hit another creature. As you try to leap across that
chasm, you’ll attempt an Athletics skill check with a DC
based on the distance you’re trying to jump. When calling
to mind the name of the earl’s second cousin, you attempt
a check to Recall Knowledge. You might use either the
Society skill or a Lore skill you have that’s relevant to the
task, and the DC depends on how common the knowledge
of the cousin’s name might be, or possibly how many
drinks your character had when they were introduced to
the cousin the night before.
No matter the details, for any check you must roll the
d20 and achieve a result equal to or greater than the DC to
succeed. Each of these steps is explained below.
Step 1: Roll D20
Start by rolling your d20. You’ll then identify all the
relevant modifiers, bonuses, and penalties that apply. A
modifier can be either positive or negative, but a bonus is
always positive, and a penalty is always negative. The sum
of all the modifiers, bonuses, and penalties you apply to
the d20 roll is called your total modifier for that statistic.
Attribute Modifier
Nearly all checks allow you to add an attribute modifier to
the roll. Attribute modifiers represent your raw capability
and are described on page 19. Exactly which attribute
modifier you use is determined by what you’re trying to
accomplish. Usually, a sword swing applies your Strength
modifier, whereas remembering the name of the earl’s
cousin uses your Intelligence modifier.
Bonuses
When attempting a check that involves something you have
some training in, you will also add your proficiency bonus.
This bonus depends on your proficiency rank: untrained,
trained, expert, master, or legendary. If you’re untrained,
your bonus is +0—you must rely on raw talent and any
bonuses from the situation. Otherwise, the bonus equals

your character’s level plus a certain amount depending on
your rank. If your proficiency rank is trained, this bonus
is equal to your level + 2, and higher proficiency ranks
further increase the amount you add to your level.
Proficiency Rank Proficiency Bonus
Untrained 0
Trained Your level + 2
Expert Your level + 4
Master Your level + 6
Legendary Your level + 8
There are three other types of bonus that frequently
appear: circumstance bonuses, item bonuses, and status
bonuses. If you have different types of bonuses that would
apply to the same roll, you’ll add them all. But if you have
multiple bonuses of the same type, you can use only the
highest bonus on a given roll—they aren’t cumulative. For
instance, if you have both a proficiency bonus and an item
bonus, you add both to your d20 result, but if you have
two item bonuses, you add only the higher of the two.
Circumstance bonuses involve the situation you find
yourself in when attempting a check. For instance, using
Raise a Shield with a buckler grants you a +1 circumstance
bonus to AC. Being behind cover grants you a +2
circumstance bonus to AC.
Item bonuses are granted by some item that you are
wearing or using, either mundane or magical. For example,
armor gives you an item bonus to AC, while an expanded
alchemist’s toolkit grants you an item bonus to Crafting
checks when making alchemical items.
Status bonuses typically come from spells, other magical
effects, or something applying a helpful, often temporary,
condition to you. For instance, the 3rd-rank heroism spell
grants a +1 status bonus to attack rolls, Perception checks,
saving throws, and skill checks.
Penalties
Penalties work very much like bonuses. You can have
circumstance penalties, status penalties, and sometimes even
item penalties. Like bonuses of the same type, you take only
the worst all of various penalties of a given type. However,
you can apply both a bonus and a penalty of the same
type on a single roll. For example, if you had a +1 status
bonus from a heroism spell but a –2 status penalty from the
sickened condition, you’d apply them both to your roll—so
heroism still helps even though you’re feeling unwell.
Unlike bonuses, penalties can also be untyped, in which
case they won’t be classified as “circumstance,” “item,” or
“status.” Unlike other penalties, you always add all your
untyped penalties together rather than simply taking the
worst one. For instance, when you use attack actions, you
incur a multiple attack penalty on each attack you make on
your turn after the first attack of the turn, and when you
attack a target that’s beyond your weapon’s normal range
increment, you incur a range penalty on the attack. Because
these are both untyped penalties, if you make multiple
attacks at a faraway target, you’d apply both the multiple
attack penalty and the range penalty to your roll.
Once you’ve identified all your various modifiers,
bonuses, and penalties, you move on to the next step.
Step 2: Calculate Result
This step is simple. Add up all the various modifiers,
bonuses, and penalties you identified in Step 1—this is your
total modifier. Next add that to the number that came up
on your d20 roll. This total is your check result.
Step 3: Compare to DC
Whenever you attempt a check, you compare your result
against the Difficulty Class (DC) of the check. Your check
succeeds if it’s equal to or greater than the DC. If you roll
anything less than the DC, you fail.
Sometimes you’ll know the DC and make the comparison
yourself. Other times, you might not know the DC right
away. Swimming across a river would require an Athletics
check, but it doesn’t have a specified DC—so how will you
know if you succeed or fail? You call out your result to
the GM and they’ll let you know if it’s a success, failure,
or otherwise. While you might learn the exact DC through
trial and error, DCs sometimes change, so asking the GM
whether a check is successful is best.
Getting a DC from a Modifier
When someone attempts a check against you, you might
need to defend with one of your statistics that’s normally a
modifier, such as your “Reflex DC.” Rather than rolling a
check of your own, you need to generate a fixed DC based
on your modifier. Your DC for a given statistic is 10 + the
total modifier for that statistic. So if you have a +4 Reflex
save, your Reflex DC is 14.
FORTUNE AND MISFORTUNE
Fortune and misfortune effects can alter how you roll
your dice. These abilities might allow you to reroll a failed
roll, force you to reroll a successful roll, allow you to roll
twice and use the higher result, or force you to roll twice
and use the lower result.
You can never have more than one fortune effect or
misfortune effect come into play on a single roll. For
instance, if an effect lets you roll twice and use the higher
roll, you can’t then use Halfling Luck (a fortune effect) to
reroll if you fail. If multiple fortune effects would apply,
you have to pick which to use. If two misfortune effects
apply, the GM decides which is worse and applies it.
If both a fortune effect and a misfortune effect would
apply to the same roll, the two cancel each other out, and
you roll normally.
You critically succeed when the check’s result meets or
exceeds the DC by 10 or more. If the check is an attack roll,
this is also known as a critical hit. You can also critically
fail a check. The rules for critical failure—sometimes called
a fumble—are the same as those for a critical success, but
in the other direction: if you fail a check by 10 or more,
that’s a critical failure.
Some actions and abilities have stronger effects on
a critical success or failure. For example, a Strike deals
double damage on a critical hit. If an effect doesn’t list a
critical success effect, the critical success effect is the same
as the success effect, and the same goes for critical failures.
Natural 1 and Natural 20
If you rolled a 20 on the die (a “natural 20”), your result is
one degree of success better than it would be by numbers
alone. If you roll a 1 on the d20 (a “natural 1”), your result
is one degree worse. This means that a natural 20 usually
results in a critical success and natural 1 usually results in
a critical failure. However, if you were going up against a
very high DC, you might get only a success with a natural
20, or even a failure if 20 plus your total modifier is 10
or more below the DC. Likewise, if your modifier for a
statistic is so high that adding it to a 1 from your d20 roll
exceeds the DC by 10 or more, you can succeed even if you
roll a natural 1!
Certain abilities can change the degree of success on a
roll. When resolving such an ability, apply the adjustment
from a natural 20 or natural 1 before anything else.

CALCULATING CHECK RESULTS If you have more than one bonus or penalty of a particular type,
apply only the highest
Number on
the d20
+
Attribute
modifier
+
Proficiency bonus
Circumstance bonus
Status bonus
Item bonus
+
Circumstance penalty
Status penalty
Item penalty
All untyped penalties
=
Result
Attack Rolls
When you use a Strike action or make a spell attack, you
attempt a check called an attack roll. Attack rolls take
a variety of forms and are often highly variable based
on the weapon you are using for the attack, but there
are three main types: melee attack rolls, ranged attack
rolls, and spell attack rolls. Spell attack rolls work a
little bit differently, so they are explained separately on
the next page.
Melee attack rolls use Strength as their attribute
modifier by default. If you’re using a weapon or attack
with the finesse trait, then you can use your Dexterity
modifier instead.

Melee attack roll result = d20 roll + Strength modifier
(or optionally Dexterity modifier for a finesse weapon) +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
Ranged attack rolls use Dexterity as their
attribute modifier.
Ranged attack roll result = d20 roll + Dexterity modifier
+ proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
When attacking with a weapon, whether melee or
ranged, you add your proficiency bonus for the weapon
you’re using. Your class determines your proficiency rank
for various weapons. Sometimes, you’ll have different
proficiency ranks for different weapons or groups
of weapons.
The bonuses you might apply to attack rolls can come
from a variety of sources. Circumstance bonuses can
come from the aid of an ally or a beneficial situation.
Status bonuses are typically granted by spells and other
magical aids. The item bonus to attack rolls comes from
magic weapons—notably, a weapon’s potency rune
(GM Core, page 236).
Penalties to attack rolls come from situations and
effects as well. Circumstance penalties come from risky
tactics or detrimental circumstances, status penalties
come from spells and magic working against you,
and item penalties occur when you use a shoddy
item (page 270). When making attack rolls,
two main types of untyped penalties are likely
to apply. The first is the multiple attack penalty,
and the second is the range penalty. The first applies
anytime you make more than one attack action during
the course of your turn, and the other applies only with
ranged or thrown weapons. Both are described below.
Multiple Attack Penalty
The more attacks you make beyond your first in a
single turn, the less accurate you become, represented
by the multiple attack penalty. The second time you
use an attack action during your turn, you take a –5
penalty to your check. The third time you attack, and
on any subsequent attacks, you take a –10 penalty to
your check. Every check that has the attack trait counts
toward your multiple attack penalty, including Strikes,
spell attack rolls, certain skill actions like Shove, and
many others.
Some weapons and abilities reduce multiple attack
penalties, such as agile weapons, which reduce
these penalties to –4 on the second attack or –8 on
further attacks.

Attack Multiple Attack Penalty Agile
First None None
Second –5 –4
Third or subsequent –10 –8
Always calculate your multiple attack penalty based
on the weapon you’re using on that attack, not ones you
used on previous attacks. For example, let’s say you’re
wielding a longsword in one hand and a shortsword
(which has the agile trait) in your other hand, and you
make three Strikes with these weapons over the course
of your turn. The first Strike you make during your turn
has no penalty, no matter what weapon you are using.
The second Strike will take either a –5 penalty if you use
the longsword or a –4 penalty if you use the shortsword.
Your third attack would be a –10 penalty with the
longsword and a –8 penalty with the shortsword, no
matter what weapon you used for your previous Strikes.
The multiple attack penalty applies only during your
turn, so you don’t have to keep track of it if you can
perform a Reactive Strike or a similar reaction that lets
you make a Strike on someone else’s turn.
Range Penalty
Ranged and thrown weapons each have a listed range
increment, and attacks with them grow less accurate
against targets farther away (range and range increments
are covered in depth on page 426). As long as your target
is at or within the listed range increment, also called the
first range increment, you take no penalty to the attack
roll. If you’re attacking beyond that range increment,
you take a –2 penalty for each additional increment
beyond the first. You can attempt to attack with a ranged
weapon or thrown weapon up to six range increments
away, but the farther away you are, the harder it is to
hit your target.
For example, the range increment of a crossbow is
120 feet. If you are shooting at a target no farther away
than that distance, you take no penalty due to range. If
they’re beyond 120 feet but no more than 240 feet away,
you take a –2 penalty due to range. If they’re beyond
240 feet but no more than 360 feet away, you take a –4
penalty due to range, and so on, until you reach the last
range increment: beyond 600 feet but no more than 720
feet away, where you take a –10 penalty due to range.
Compare to AC
You compare your attack roll to Armor Class (AC), a
special type of DC. Learn how to calculate it on page 404.
Spell Attack Rolls
If you cast spells, you might need to make a spell attack
roll. These rolls are usually made when you cast a spell
that targets a creature’s AC.
The attribute modifier for a spell attack roll depends
on how you gained the spell. If your class grants you
spellcasting, use your key attribute modifier (such
as Intelligence for a wizard). Innate spells use your
Charisma modifier unless the ability that granted them
states otherwise. Focus spells and other sources of spells
specify which attribute modifier you use for spell attack
modifiers in the ability that granted them. If you have
spells from multiple sources or traditions, you might use
different attribute modifiers for spell attack modifiers
for these different sources of spells. For example, a
dwarf cleric with the Stonewalker ancestry feat would
use her Charisma modifier when casting one with stone
from that feat, since it’s a divine innate spell, but she
would use her Wisdom modifier when casting heal and
other spells using her cleric divine spellcasting.
If you have the ability to cast spells, you’ll have a
proficiency rank for your spell attack modifier, so you’ll
always add a proficiency bonus. Like your attribute
modifier, this proficiency rank may vary from one spell
to another if you have spells from multiple sources. Spell
attack rolls can benefit from circumstance bonuses and
status bonuses, though item bonuses to spell attack rolls
are rare. Penalties affect spell attack rolls just like any
other attack roll—including your multiple attack penalty.
Calculate a spell attack roll with the following formula.
Spell attack roll result = d20 roll + spellcasting attribute
modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
WRITING DOWN STATISTICS
When creating your character and adventuring you’ll
record the total modifier for various important checks on
your character sheet. Since many bonuses and penalties
are due to the immediate circumstances, spells, and other
temporary magical effects, you typically won’t apply
them to your notations.
For example, the number you write down for your
attack modifier with your battle axe would likely be your
Strength modifier + your proficiency bonus with martial
weapons. Your spell attack modifier is typically just your
spellcasting attribute modifier + your proficiency bonus,
and your spell DC is usually the same number + 10.
Item bonuses and penalties are often more persistent,
so you will often want to record them ahead of time.
For instance, if you upgraded your battle axe with a +1
weapon potency rune, you’ll want to add the +1 item
bonus into your attack modifier with the battle axe, since
you will include that bonus every time you attack with
that weapon.
Spell DC
Many times, instead of requiring you to make a spell
attack roll, the spells you cast will require those within
the area or targeted by the spell to attempt a saving
throw against your spell DC to determine how the spell
affects them. Calculate it using the following formula.
Spell DC = 10 + spellcasting attribute modifier +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
Defenses
Multiple statistics help you defend against attacks, spells,
hazards, and other dangers of adventuring: Armor Class
and three saving throws.
Armor Class
Attack rolls are compared to a special Difficulty Class
called Armor Class (AC), which measures how hard it is
for your foes to hit you with Strikes, spell attack rolls, and
other attacks. Just like for any other check and DC, the
result of an attack roll must meet or exceed your AC to be
successful, which allows your foe to deal damage to you.
Armor Class is calculated using the following formula.
Armor Class = 10 + Dexterity modifier (up to your
armor’s Dex Cap) + proficiency bonus + armor’s item
bonus to AC + other bonuses + penalties
Use your proficiency bonus for the category (light,
medium, or heavy) or the specific type of armor
you’re wearing. If you’re not wearing armor, use your
proficiency in unarmored defense.
Armor Class can benefit from bonuses with a variety
of sources, much like attack rolls. Armor itself grants an
item bonus, so other item bonuses usually won’t apply to
your AC, but magic armor can increase the item bonus
granted by your armor.
Penalties to AC come from situations and effects in
much the same way bonuses do. Circumstance penalties
come from unfavorable situations, and status penalties
come from effects that impede your abilities or from
broken armor. You take an item penalty when you wear
shoddy armor (page 270).
Saving Throws
There are three types of saving throws: Fortitude saves,
Reflex saves, and Will saves. These are frequently called
“saves”—it’s the same thing. Saving throws measure
your ability to shrug off harmful effects in the form of
afflictions, damage, or conditions. You’ll always add a
proficiency bonus to each save. Your class might give a
different proficiency to each save, but you’ll be trained
at minimum. Some circumstances and spells might give
you circumstance or status bonuses to saves, and you
might find resilient armor or other magic items that give
an item bonus.
Fortitude saving throws allow you to reduce the
effects of abilities and afflictions that can debilitate
the body. They use your Constitution modifier and are
calculated as shown in the formula below.
Fortitude save result = d20 roll + Constitution modifier +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
Reflex saving throws measure how well you can
respond quickly to a situation and how gracefully you

can avoid effects that have been thrown at you. They use
your Dexterity modifier and are calculated as shown in
the formula below.
Reflex save result = d20 roll + Dexterity modifier +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
Will saving throws measure how well you can resist
attacks to your mind and spirit. They use your Wisdom
modifier and are calculated as shown in the formula below.
Will save result = d20 roll + Wisdom modifier +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
Sometimes you’ll need to know your DC for a given
saving throw (such as a Grapple attempt requiring a roll
against your Reflex DC). Like any other DC derived
from a modifier, the DC for a saving throw is 10 + the
total modifier for that saving throw.
Most of the time, when you attempt a saving throw,
you don’t have to use your actions or your reaction.
You don’t even need to be able to act to attempt saving
throws. However, in some special cases you might have
to take an action to attempt a save. For instance, you can
try to recover from the sickened condition by spending
an action to attempt a Fortitude save.
Basic Saving Throws
Sometimes you will be called on to attempt a basic saving
throw (or “basic save”). This type of saving throw works
just like any other saving throw—the “basic” part refers
to the effects. For a basic save, you’ll attempt the check
and determine whether you critically succeed, succeed,
fail, or critically fail like you would any other saving
throw. Then one of the following outcomes applies based
on your degree of success—no matter what caused the
saving throw. Some spells or abilities add an additional
effect on certain results but still use a basic saving throw
for brevity.
Critical Success You take no damage from the effect.
Success You take half the listed damage from the effect.
Failure You take the full damage listed from the effect.
Critical Failure You take double the listed damage from the effect.
Perception
Perception measures your ability to be aware of your
environment. Every creature has Perception, which
works with and is limited by a creature’s senses. (Details
on senses and detecting things are on page 434).
Whenever you need to attempt a check based on your
awareness, you’ll attempt a Perception check. Your
Perception uses your Wisdom modifier, so you’ll use the
following formula when attempting a Perception check.
Perception check result = d20 roll + Wisdom modifier +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
Nearly all creatures are at least trained in Perception,
so you will almost always add a proficiency bonus to
your Perception modifier. You might add a circumstance
bonus for advantageous situations or environments and
typically get status bonuses from spells or other magical
effects. Items can also grant you a bonus to Perception,
typically in a certain situation. For instance, a fine spyglass
grants a +1 item bonus to Perception when attempting
to see something a long distance away. Circumstance
penalties to Perception occur when an environment or
situation (such as fog) hampers your senses, while status
penalties typically come from conditions, spells, and
magic effects that foil the senses. You’ll rarely encounter
item penalties or untyped penalties for Perception.
Many abilities are compared to your Perception DC to
determine whether they succeed. As with any DC based
on a modifier, your Perception DC is 10 + your total
Perception modifier.
Perception for Initiative
Often, you’ll roll a Perception check to determine
your order in initiative. When you do this, instead of
comparing the result against a DC, the GM will put
the results for everyone in the encounter in order. The
creature with the highest result acts first, the creature
with the second-highest result goes second, and so on.
Sometimes you may be called on to roll a skill check
for initiative instead, but you’ll compare results just as
if you had rolled Perception. The full rules for initiative
are found in the rules for encounter mode on page 435.
Skill Checks
Pathfinder has a variety of skills, from Athletics to
Medicine to Occultism. Each grants you a set of related
actions that rely on you rolling a skill check. Each skill
has a key attribute modifier, based on the scope of the
skill in question. For instance, Athletics deals with feats
of physical prowess, like swimming and jumping, so its
key attribute modifier is Strength. Medicine deals with
the ability to diagnose and treat wounds and ailments,
so its key attribute modifier is Wisdom. The key attribute
modifier for each skill is listed on page 227 in Chapter 4:
Skills. No matter which skill you’re using, you calculate
a check for it using the following formula.
Skill check result = d20 roll + the skill’s key attribute
modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
You’re unlikely to be trained in every skill. As
normal, when using a skill in which you’re untrained,
your proficiency bonus is +0; otherwise, it equals your
level plus 2 for trained, or higher once you become
expert or better. The proficiency rank is specific to the
skill you’re using. Aid from another character or some
other beneficial situation may grant you a circumstance
bonus. A status bonus might come from a helpful
spell or magical effect. Sometimes tools related to the
skill grant you an item bonus to your skill checks.
Conversely, unfavorable situations might give you a
circumstance penalty to your skill check, while harmful
spells, magic, or conditions might also impose a status
penalty. Using shoddy or makeshift tools might cause
you to take an item penalty. Sometimes a skill action
can be an attack, and in these cases, the skill check
might take a multiple attack penalty, as described on
page 234.
When an ability calls for you to use the DC for a
specific skill, you can calculate it by adding 10 + your
total modifier for that skill.
FLAT CHECKS

When the chance something will happen or fail to happen
is based purely on chance, you’ll attempt a flat check. A
flat check never includes any modifiers, bonuses, or
penalties—you just roll a d20 and compare the result on
the die to the DC. Only abilities that specifically apply to
flat checks can change the checks’ DCs; most such effects
affect only certain types of flat checks.
If more than one flat check would ever cause or
prevent the same thing, just roll once and use the highest
DC. In the rare circumstance that a flat check has a DC
of 1 or lower, skip rolling; you automatically succeed.
Conversely, if one ever has a DC of 21 or higher, you
automatically fail.

SECRET CHECKS

Sometimes you as the player shouldn’t know the exact
result and effect of a check. In these situations, the rules
(or the GM) will call for a secret check. The secret trait
appears on anything that uses secret checks. This type of
check uses the same formulas you normally would use for
that check, but is rolled by the GM, who doesn’t reveal the
result. Instead, the GM simply describes the information or
effects determined by the check’s result. If you don’t know
a secret check is happening (for instance, if the GM rolls
a secret Fortitude save against a poison that you failed to
notice), you can’t use any fortune or misfortune abilities
(see the sidebar on page 401) on that check, but if a fortune
or misfortune effect would apply automatically, the GM
applies it to the secret check. If you know that the GM is
attempting a secret check—as often happens with Recall
Knowledge or Seek—you can usually activate fortune or
misfortune abilities for that check. Just tell the GM, and
they’ll apply the ability to the check.
The GM can choose to make any check secret, even if it’s
not usually rolled secretly. Conversely, the GM can let you
roll any check yourself, even if that check would usually
be secret. Some groups find it simpler to have players roll

all secret checks and just try to avoid acting on any out-
of-character knowledge, while others enjoy the mystery.
DAMAGE ROLLS
Strikes, spells, hazards, and all number of other dangers can deal damage, which can kill
creatures and destroy objects.
Damage decreases a creature’s Hit Points (HP) on a 1-to-
1 basis (so a creature that takes 6 damage loses 6 Hit

Points). The full rules for losing HP can be found in the
Hit Points, Healing, and Dying section on page 410.
Damage is sometimes given as a fixed amount, but more
often than not you’ll make a damage roll to determine
how much damage you deal. A damage roll typically uses
a number and type of dice determined by the weapon
or unarmed attack used or the spell cast, and it’s often
enhanced by various modifiers, bonuses, and penalties.
Like checks, a damage roll—especially a melee weapon
damage roll—is often modified by a number of modifiers,
penalties, and bonuses. When making a damage roll, you
take the following steps, explained in detail below.
1. Roll damage dice indicated by the weapon, unarmed
attack, or spell, and apply the modifiers, bonuses,
and penalties that apply to the result of the roll.
2. Determine the damage type.
3. Apply immunities, weaknesses, and resistances the
subject has to the damage.
4.If any damage remains, reduce Hit Points the target
has by that amount.
Step 1: Roll Damage Dice
Your weapon, unarmed attack, spell, or even a magic
item determines what size and number of dice you
roll for damage. For instance, if you’re using a normal
longsword, you’ll roll 1d8. If you’re casting a 3rd-rank
fireball spell, you’ll roll 6d6. Sometimes, especially in the
case of weapons, you’ll apply modifiers, bonuses, and
penalties to the damage.
Damage rolls for melee weapons and unarmed attacks
typically add your Strength attribute modifier.
Melee damage roll = damage die of weapon or unarmed
attack + Strength modifier + bonuses + penalties
Damage rolls for ranged weapons typically don’t add
an attribute modifier, though you add your Strength
modifier to damage rolls for thrown weapons or half the
modifier to damage rolls for ranged weapons with the
propulsive trait.
Ranged damage roll = damage die of weapon (+ Strength
modifier for a thrown weapon or half Strength modifier
for a propulsive weapon) + bonuses + penalties
For damage rolls with spells, alchemical bombs, and
similar items, you don’t add an attribute modifier unless
otherwise noted.
Strikes, spells, hazards, and all number of other dangers can deal damage, which can kill
creatures and destroy objects.

DAMAGE ROLLS

Spell (or similar effect) damage roll = damage die of
effect + bonuses + penalties

As with checks, you might add circumstance, status, or
item bonuses to your damage rolls, but if you have multiple
bonuses of the same type, you add only the highest bonus
of that type. Again like checks, you may also apply
circumstance, status, item, and untyped penalties to the
damage roll, and again you apply only the greatest penalty
of a specific type but apply all untyped penalties together.
If the combined penalties on an attack would reduce the
damage to 0 or below, you still deal 1 damage. Sometimes
there are other considerations, described below.
Adding Damage Dice
Each weapon lists the damage die used for its damage
roll. A standard weapon deals one die of damage, but
a magical striking rune can increase the number of dice
rolled, as can some special actions and spells. These
additional dice use the same die size as the weapon or
unarmed attack’s normal damage die.
Counting Damage Dice
Effects based on a weapon’s number of damage dice
include only the weapon’s damage die plus any extra
dice from a striking rune. They don’t count extra dice
from abilities, critical specialization effects, property
runes, weapon traits, or the like.
Increasing Die Size
When an effect calls on you to increase the size of your
weapon damage dice, instead of using its normal weapon
damage dice, use the next larger die, as listed below (so if
you were using a d4, you’d use a d6, and so on). If you are
already using a d12, the size is already at its maximum. You
can’t increase your weapon damage die size more than once.

1d4 » 1d6 » 1d8 » 1d10 » 1d12

Persistent Damage
Persistent damage is a condition that causes damage to
recur beyond the original effect. Like normal damage, it
can be doubled or halved based on the results of an attack
roll or saving throw. Unlike with normal damage, when
you are subject to persistent damage, you don’t take it
right away. Instead, you take the specified damage at the
end of your turns, after which you attempt a DC 15 flat
check to see if you recover from the persistent damage.
See page 445 in the Conditions Appendix for the complete
rules regarding the persistent damage condition.
Doubling and Halving Damage
Sometimes you’ll need to halve or double an amount of
damage, such as when the outcome of your Strike is a critical
hit or when you succeed at a basic Reflex save against a
spell. When this happens, you roll the damage normally,
adding all the normal modifiers, bonuses, and penalties.
Then you double or halve the amount as appropriate. As
normal, round down if you halve the damage (though 1
damage halved remains at a minimum of 1 damage).
When doubling, the GM might allow you to roll the
dice twice and double the modifiers, bonuses, and penalties
instead of doubling the entire result, but this usually works
best for single-target attacks or spells at low levels when
you have a small number of damage dice to roll. Benefits
you gain specifically from a critical hit, like the extra
damage die from the fatal weapon trait, aren’t doubled.
Step 2: Damage Type
Once you’ve calculated how much damage you deal,
you’ll need to determine the damage type. The smack
of a club deals bludgeoning damage. The shock of a
lightning bolt spell deals electricity damage. Sometimes
you might apply precision damage, dealing more damage
for hitting a creature in a vulnerable spot or when the
target is somehow vulnerable. The damage types are
described on page 409.

Step 3: Apply Immunities,
Weaknesses, and
Resistances
Defenses against certain types of damage or effects are
called immunities or resistances, while vulnerabilities
are called weaknesses. Apply immunities first, then
weaknesses, and resistances third. See page 408
Step 4: Reduce Hit
Points
Any remaining damage reduces the target’s Hit Points
on a 1-to-1 basis. More information can be found in the
Hit Points, Healing, and Dying section on page 410.
Nonlethal Attacks
You can make a nonlethal attack to knock someone out
instead of killing them (see Knocked Out and Dying on
page 410). Weapons with the nonlethal trait (including
fists) do this automatically. You take a –2 circumstance
penalty to the attack roll when you make a nonlethal
attack using a weapon or unarmed attack that doesn’t
have the nonlethal trait. You also take this penalty when
making a lethal attack using a nonlethal weapon. Spells
and other effects with the nonlethal trait that reduce a
creature to 0 Hit Points knock the creature out instead
of killing them.
IMMUNITY, WEAKNESS, AND RESISTANCE
Damage and effects can be negated, deal less damage, or deal more damage due to the
recipient’s immunity, weakness, or resistance.
Immunity
When you have immunity to a specific type of damage,
you ignore all damage of that type. If you have immunity
to a specific condition or type of effect, you can’t be
affected by that condition or any effect of that type. You
can still be targeted by an ability that includes an effect
or condition you are immune to; you just don’t apply
that particular effect or condition.
If you have immunity to effects with a certain trait (such
as death effects, poison, or disease), you are unaffected
by effects with that trait. Often, an effect both has a trait
and deals that type of damage (such as a lightning bolt
spell). In these cases, the immunity applies to the effect
corresponding to the trait, not just the damage. However,
some complex effects might have parts that affect you even
if you’re immune to one of the effect’s traits; for instance, a
spell that deals both fire and acid damage can still deal acid
damage to you even if you’re immune to fire.
Immunity to Critical Hits
Immunity to critical hits works a little differently. When
a creature immune to critical hits is critically hit by a
Strike or other attack that deals damage, it takes normal
damage instead of double damage. This does not make it
immune to any other critical success effects of the actions,
such as a critical specialization effect or the extra damage
of the deadly trait. However, in some cases the GM might
determine the added effects don’t apply.
Immunity to Nonlethal
Another exception is immunity to the nonlethal trait. If
you’re immune to nonlethal, you’re immune to all damage
from attacks and effects with the nonlethal trait, no matter
what other type the damage has. For instance, a typical
construct has immunity to nonlethal attacks. No matter
how hard you hit it with your fist, you’re not going to
damage it. However, you can take a penalty to remove the
nonlethal trait from your fist (page 282), and some abilities
give you unarmed attacks without the nonlethal trait.
Temporary Immunity
Some effects grant you immunity to the same effect for a set
amount of time. If an effect grants you temporary immunity,
repeated applications of that effect don’t affect you for as
long as the temporary immunity lasts. Unless the effect says
it applies only to a certain creature’s ability, it doesn’t matter
who created the effect. For example, the blindness spell
says, “The target is temporarily immune to blindness for
1 minute.” If anyone casts blindness on that creature again
before 1 minute passes, the spell has no effect.
Temporary immunity doesn’t prevent or end ongoing
effects of the source of the temporary immunity. For
instance, if an ability makes you frightened and you then gain
temporary immunity to the ability, you don’t immediately
lose the frightened condition due to the immunity you just
gained—you simply don’t become frightened if you’re
targeted by the ability again before the immunity ends.
Weakness
If you have a weakness to a certain type of damage or
damage from a certain source, that type of damage is extra
effective against you. Whenever you would take that type
of damage, increase the damage you take by the value of
the weakness. For instance, if you are dealt 2d6 fire damage
and have weakness 5 to fire, you take 2d6+5 fire damage.
If you have a weakness to something that doesn’t
normally deal damage, such as water, you take damage
equal to the weakness value when touched or affected
by it. If more than one weakness would apply to the
same instance of damage, use only the highest applicable
weakness value. This usually only happens when a creature
is weak to both a type of damage and a material or trait,
such as a cold iron axe cutting a monster that has weakness
to cold iron and slashing.
Resistance
If you have resistance to a type of damage, each time you
take that type of damage, reduce the amount of damage
you take by the listed number (to a minimum of 0 damage).
Resistance can specify combinations of damage types or
other traits. For instance, you might encounter a monster
that’s resistant to non-magical bludgeoning damage,
meaning it would take less damage from bludgeoning
attacks that weren’t magical, but would take normal

damage from your +1 mace (since it’s magical) or a non-
magical spear (since it deals piercing damage). A resistance

also might have an exception. For example, resistance
10 to physical damage (except silver) would reduce any
physical damage by 10 unless that damage was dealt by a
silver weapon.
If you have more than one type of resistance that would
apply to the same instance of damage, use only the highest
applicable resistance value, as described in weakness.
It’s possible to have resistance to all damage. When
an effect deals damage of multiple types and you have
resistance to all damage, apply the resistance to each type
of damage separately. If an attack would deal 7 slashing
damage and 4 fire damage, resistance 5 to all damage
would reduce the slashing damage to 2 and negate the fire
damage entirely.
DAMAGE TYPES
Damage has a number of different types and categories, which are described below.
Physical Damage

Damage dealt by weapons, many physical hazards, and a
handful of spells is collectively called physical damage. The
main types of physical damage are bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing. Bludgeoning damage comes from weapons
and hazards that deal blunt-force trauma, like a hit from a
club or being dashed against rocks. Piercing damage is dealt
from stabs and punctures, whether from a dragon’s fangs
or the thrust of a spear. Slashing damage is delivered by a
cut, be it the swing of the sword or the blow from a scythe
blades trap.
Ghosts and other incorporeal creatures have a high
resistance to physical attacks that aren’t magical (attacks
that lack the magical trait). Furthermore, most incorporeal
creatures have additional, though lower, resistance to
magical physical damage (such as damage dealt from a
mace with the magical trait) and most other damage types.

Energy Damage

Many spells and other magical effects deal energy damage.
Energy damage is also dealt from effects in the world, such
as the biting cold of a blizzard to a raging forest fire. The
main types of energy damage are acid, cold, electricity, fire,
and sonic. Acid damage can be delivered by gases, liquids,
and certain solids that dissolve flesh, and sometimes harder
materials. Cold damage freezes material by way of contact
with chilling gases and ice. Electricity damage comes from
the discharge of powerful lightning and sparks. Fire damage
burns through heat and combustion. Sonic damage assaults
matter with high-frequency vibration and sound waves.
Many times, you deal energy damage by casting magic
spells, and doing so is often useful against creatures that
have immunities or resistances to physical damage.
Two special types of energy damage specifically target
the living and the undead. Vitality damage harms only
undead creatures, withering undead bodies and disrupting
incorporeal undead. Void damage saps life, damaging only
living creatures.
Powerful and pure magical energy can manifest itself as
force damage. Few things can resist this type of damage—
not even incorporeal creatures such as ghosts and wraiths.

Spirit Damage

Directly affecting the spiritual essence of a creature, spirit
damage can damage a target projecting its consciousness
or possessing another creature even if the target’s body is
elsewhere. The possessed creature isn’t harmed by the blast.
Spirit damage doesn’t harm creatures that have no spirit, such
as constructs. Many effects that deal spirit damage also have
the sanctified, holy, or unholy trait, all of which are described
in the sidebar on page 36, and on pages 456 and 462.
Mental Damage

Sometimes an effect can target the mind with enough
psychic force to actually deal damage to the creature. When
it does, it deals mental damage. Mindless creatures and
those with only programmed or rudimentary intelligence
are often immune to mental damage and effects.
Poison Damage

Venoms, toxins and the like can deal poison damage, which
affects creatures by way of contact, ingestion, inhalation,
or injury. In addition to coming from monster attacks,
alchemical items, and spells, poison damage is often caused
by ongoing afflictions, which follow special rules described
on page 430.

Bleed Damage

Another special type of physical damage is bleed damage.
This is persistent damage that represents loss of blood.
As such, it has no effect on nonliving creatures or living
creatures that don’t need blood to live. Weaknesses and
resistances to physical damage apply. Bleed damage ends
automatically if you’re healed to your full Hit Points.
Precision Damage

Sometimes you are able to make the most of your attack
through sheer precision. When you hit with an ability that
grants you precision damage, you increase the attack’s
listed damage, using the same damage type, rather than

tracking a separate pool of damage. For example, a non-
magical dagger Strike that deals 1d6 precision damage

from a rogue’s sneak attack increases the piercing damage
by 1d6.
Some creatures are immune to precision damage,
regardless of the damage type; these are often amorphous
creatures that lack vulnerable anatomy. A creature immune
to precision damage would ignore the 1d6 precision
damage in the example above, but it would still take the
rest of the piercing damage from the Strike. Since precision
damage is always the same type of damage as the attack
it’s augmenting, a creature that is resistant to physical
damage, like a gargoyle, would resist not only the dagger’s
damage but also the precision damage, even though it is not
specifically resistant to precision damage.
Precious Materials

While not their own damage category, precious materials
can modify damage to penetrate a creature’s resistances
or take advantage of its weaknesses. For instance, silver
weapons are particularly effective against werecreatures
and bypass the resistances to physical damage that most
devils have.
HIT POINTS, HEALING, AND DYING
For adventurers, injury and death lurk around every corner.
Hit Points
All creatures and objects have Hit Points (HP). Your
maximum Hit Point value represents your health,
wherewithal, and heroic drive when you’re in good
health and rested. Your maximum Hit Points include
the Hit Points you gain at 1st level from your ancestry
and class, those you gain at higher levels from your
class, and any you gain from other sources (like the
Toughness general feat). When you take damage, you
reduce your current Hit Points by a number equal to the
damage dealt.
Some spells, items, and other effects, as well as simply
resting, can heal creatures. When you’re healed, you
regain Hit Points equal to the amount healed, up to your
maximum Hit Points.
Temporary Hit Points
Some spells or abilities give you temporary Hit
Points. Track these separately from your current and
maximum Hit Points; when you take damage, reduce
your temporary Hit Points first. Most temporary Hit
Points last for a limited duration. You can’t regain lost
temporary Hit Points through healing, but you can
gain more via other abilities. You can have temporary
Hit Points from only one source at a time. If you gain
temporary Hit Points when you already have some,
choose whether to keep the amount you already have
and their corresponding duration or to gain the new
temporary Hit Points and their duration.
For adventurers, injury and death lurk around every corner.
HIT POINTS, HEALING, AND DYING

Fast Healing and Regeneration
A creature with fast healing or regeneration regains the
listed amount of Hit Points each round at the beginning
of its turn. A creature with regeneration has additional
benefits. Its dying condition can’t increase to a value
that would kill it (this stops most creatures from going
beyond dying 3) as long as its regeneration is active. If it
takes damage of a type listed in the regeneration entry,
its regeneration deactivates until the end of its next turn.
Items and Hit Points
Items have Hit Points like creatures, but the rules for
damaging them are different, as explained on page 269.
An item has a Hardness statistic that reduces damage
the item takes by that amount. The item then takes
any damage left over. If an item is reduced to 0 HP, it’s
destroyed. An item also has a Broken Threshold. If its
HP are reduced to this amount or lower, it’s broken,
meaning it can’t be used for its normal function and
it doesn’t grant bonuses. You usually can’t attack an
attended object (one on a creature’s person).
Getting Knocked Out
Creatures can’t be reduced to fewer than 0 Hit Points.
When most creatures reach 0 Hit Points, they die and are
removed from play unless the attack was nonlethal, in
which case they’re instead knocked out for a significant
amount of time (usually 10 minutes or more). When undead
and constructs reach 0 Hit Points, they’re destroyed.
Player characters, their companions, and other
significant characters and creatures don’t automatically die
when they reach 0 Hit Points. Instead, they are knocked
out and are at risk of death. The GM might determine that
villains, powerful monsters, special NPCs, and enemies
with special abilities that are likely to bring them back
to the fight (like ferocity, regeneration, or healing
magic) can use these rules as well.
As a player character, when you’re reduced
to 0 Hit Points, you’re knocked out with the
following effects:
• Move your initiative position to directly before the
turn in which you were reduced to 0 HP.
• Gain the dying 1 condition. If the effect that
knocked you out was a critical success from the
attacker or the result of your critical failure, you
gain the dying 2 condition instead. If you have the
wounded condition, increase your dying value by an
amount equal to your wounded value. If the damage
was dealt by a nonlethal attack or nonlethal effect,
you don’t gain the dying condition; you’re
instead unconscious with 0 Hit Points.
Dying
While you have the dying condition, you’re bleeding out
or otherwise at death’s door. You’re unconscious while you
have the dying condition. Dying always includes a value. If
this value ever reaches dying 4, you die. While you’re dying,
your dying value can increase or decrease in two ways.
Recovery Checks
While you’re dying, attempt a recovery check at the start
of each of your turns. This is a flat check with a DC
equal to 10 + your current dying value to see if you get
better or worse.
Critical Success Your dying value is reduced by 2.
Success Your dying value is reduced by 1.
Failure Your dying value increases by 1 (plus your wounded
value, if any).
Critical Failure Your dying value increases by 2 (plus your
wounded value, if any).
Taking Damage
If you take damage while you already have the dying
condition, increase your dying condition value by 1, or
by 2 if the damage came from an attacker’s critical hit
or your own critical failure. If you have the wounded
condition, remember to add the value of your wounded
condition to your dying value.

Losing the Dying Condition
You lose the dying condition if it ever reaches dying 0. If
you’re still at 0 Hit Points, you remain unconscious, but
you can wake up as described in that condition. You lose
the dying condition automatically and wake up if you
ever have 1 Hit Point or more.
Anytime you lose the dying condition, you gain the
wounded 1 condition, or increase your wounded value by
1 if you already have that condition.
Death
After you die, you can’t act or regain actions, can’t
be affected by spells that target creatures (unless they
specifically target dead creatures), and for all other
purposes, you’re an object. When you die, you’re
reduced to 0 Hit Points if you had a different amount,
and you can’t be brought above 0 Hit Points as long
as you remain dead. Some magic can bring creatures
back to life, such as the resurrect ritual or the raise dead
spell, though these abilities aren’t without their risks or
effects, and rare artifacts and powers can even interfere
with them.
Instant Death
There are ways in which you can die instantly, without
reaching dying 0 first.
CONDITIONS RELATED TO DYING

The effects of the dying condition are described under the Dying header on page 411, but you might also need to reference
the unconscious, wounded, and doomed conditions.
Unconscious

You’re sleeping, or you’ve been knocked out. You can’t act.
You take a –4 status penalty to AC, Perception, and Reflex
saves, and you have the blinded and off-guard conditions.
When you gain this condition, you fall prone and drop
items you’re wielding or holding unless the effect states
otherwise or the GM determines you’re in a position in
which you wouldn’t.
If you’re unconscious because you’re dying, you can’t
wake up as long as you have 0 Hit Points. If you’re restored
to 1 Hit Point or more via healing, you lose the dying and
unconscious conditions and can act normally on your
next turn.
If you are unconscious and at 0 Hit Points, but not
dying, you naturally return to 1 Hit Point and awaken after
sufficient time passes. The GM determines how long you
remain unconscious, from a minimum of 10 minutes to
several hours. If you receive healing during this time, you
lose the unconscious condition and can act normally on your
next turn.
If you’re unconscious and have more than 1 Hit Point
(typically because you’re asleep or unconscious due to an
effect), you wake up in one of the following ways. Each
causes you to lose the unconscious condition.
• You take damage, provided the damage doesn’t reduce
you to 0 Hit Points. (If the damage reduces you to 0
Hit Points, you remain unconscious and gain the dying
condition as normal.)
• You receive healing other than the natural healing you
get from resting.
• Someone shakes you awake using an Interact action.
• Loud noise is being made around you—though this isn’t
automatic. At the start of your turn, you automatically
attempt a Perception check against the noise’s DC (or
the lowest DC if there’s more than one noise), waking
up if you succeed. This is often DC 5 for a battle, but if
creatures are attempting to stay quiet around you, this
Perception check uses their Stealth DC. Some magical
effects make you sleep so deeply that they don’t allow
you to attempt this Perception check.
• If you’re simply asleep, the GM decides you wake up
either because you’ve had a restful night’s sleep or
something disrupted that rest.
Wounded

You’ve been seriously injured during a fight. Anytime you
lose the dying condition, you become wounded 1 if you didn’t
already have the wounded condition. If you already have the
wounded condition, your wounded condition value instead
increases by 1. If you gain the dying condition while wounded,
increase the dying condition’s value by your wounded value.
The wounded condition ends if someone successfully restores
Hit Points to you with Treat Wounds, or if you’re restored to
full Hit Points and rest for 10 minutes.
Doomed

Your life is ebbing away, bringing you ever closer to
death. Some powerful spells and evil creatures can inflict
the doomed condition on you. Doomed always includes
a value. The maximum dying value at which you die
is reduced by your doomed value. For example, if you
were doomed 1, you would die upon reaching dying 3
instead of dying 4. If your maximum dying value is ever
reduced to 0, you instantly die. When you die, you’re no
longer doomed.
Your doomed value decreases by 1 each time you get a
full night’s rest.

HEROIC RECOVERY

If you have at least 1 Hero Point (page 413), you can spend
all of your remaining Hero Points at the start of your turn or
when your dying value would increase. You lose the dying
condition entirely and stabilize with 0 Hit Points. You don’t
gain the wounded condition or increase its value from losing
the dying condition in this way, but if you already had that
condition, you don’t lose it or decrease its value.
Death Effects
Some spells and abilities can kill you immediately or
bring you closer to death without needing to reduce
you to 0 Hit Points first. These abilities have the death
trait and usually involve energy from the Void, the
antithesis of life, or other effects that target the mind or
soul. If you’re reduced to 0 Hit Points by a death effect,
you’re slain instantly without needing to reach dying
4. For instance, the vision of death spell automatically
kills those it reduces to 0 Hit Points as terrifying
hallucinations cause them to drop dead.

A death effect might state that it kills you outright,
without dealing damage, in which case you die without
having to first reach dying 4 or be reduced to 0 Hit Points.
For instance, the Grim Reaper, an extremely powerful
entity of death, can automatically slay creatures who fail
their save against its death strike ability.
Massive Damage
You die instantly if you ever take damage equal to
or greater than double your maximum Hit Points in
one blow.
HERO POINTS
Your heroic deeds earn you Hero Points, which grant you good fortune or let you recover
from the brink of death. Unlike most aspects of your character, which persist over the long
term, Hero Points last for only a single session.
The GM is in charge of awarding Hero Points. Usually,
each character gets 1 Hero Point at the start of a
session and can gain more later by performing heroic
deeds—something selfless, daring, or beyond normal
expectations. You can have a maximum of 3 Hero Points
at a time, and you lose any remaining Hero Points at the
end of a session.
You can spend your Hero Points in one of two ways.
Neither of these is an action, and you can spend Hero
Points even if you aren’t able to act. You can spend a Hero
Point on behalf of your familiar or animal companion.
• Spend 1 Hero Point to reroll a check. You must use the
second result. This is a fortune effect (which means
you can’t use more than 1 Hero Point on a check).
• Spend all your Hero Points (minimum 1) to avoid
death. You can do this when your dying condition
would increase. You lose the dying condition entirely
and stabilize with 0 Hit Points. You don’t gain the
wounded condition or increase its value from losing
the dying condition in this way, but if you already had
that condition, you don’t lose it or decrease its value.
Describing Heroic Deeds
Because spending Hero Points reflects heroic deeds or
tasks that surpass normal expectations, if you spend a
Hero Point, you should describe the deed or task your
character accomplishes with it to the other players.
Your character’s deed might invoke a lesson learned in
a past adventure, could be spurred by a determination
to save someone else, or might depend on an item that
ended up on their person due to a previous exploit. If you
don’t want to describe the deed or don’t have any strong
ideas about how to do so, ask the GM to come up with
something for you. This can be a collaborative process,
too. The GM might remind you of a long-forgotten event
in the campaign, and all you have to do is fill in how that
event comes to mind just at the right time, motivating you
to push past your limits.
ACTIONS
You affect the world around you primarily by using actions, which produce effects. Actions
are most closely measured and restricted during the encounter mode of play, but even when
it isn’t important for you to keep strict track of actions, they remain the way in which you
interact with the game world.
You will need to track your actions carefully in an
encounter. At the start of each turn you take in an
encounter, you regain 3 actions and 1 reaction to spend
that round. (Regaining your actions is described in detail
on page 435.) You can spend your actions in many
different ways.
There are four types of actions: single actions,
activities, reactions, and free actions.
Single actions can be completed in a very short time.
They’re self-contained, and their effects are generated
within the span of that single action.
Activities usually take longer and require using
multiple actions, which must be spent in succession.
Stride is a single action, but Sudden Charge is an activity
in which you use both the Stride and Strike actions to
generate its effect.
Reactions have triggers, which must be met for you
to use the reaction. You can use a reaction anytime its
trigger is met, whether it’s your turn or not. Outside of
encounters, your use of reactions is more flexible and
up to the GM. Reactions are usually triggered by other
creatures or by events outside your control.
Free actions don’t cost you any of your actions per
turn, nor do they cost your reaction. A free action with
no trigger follows the same rules as a single action (except
the action cost). It must be used on your turn and can’t be
used during another action. A free action with a trigger
follows the same rules as a reaction (except the reaction
cost). It can be used any time its trigger is met.
ACTION ICON KEY

These icons appear in stat blocks as shorthand for each
type of action. As a player, you’ll usually see the icon in
an action’s header (such as in a basic action, skill action,
feat, or spell). In a creature stat block, or a feat that gives
you a new action in addition to other benefits, the icon
will appear in the running text. For examples, see the
formatting of rules on page 15.
[one-action] Single Action
[two-actions] Two-Action Activity
[three-actions] Three-Action Activity
[reaction] Reaction
[free-action] Free Action
Activities
An activity typically involves using multiple actions
to create an effect greater than you can produce with
a single action, or combining multiple single actions to
produce an effect that’s different from merely the sum of
those actions. In some cases, usually when spellcasting,
an activity can consist of only 1 action, 1 reaction, or
even 1 free action.
An activity might cause you to use specific actions
within it. You don’t have to spend additional actions to
perform them—they’re already factored into the activity’s
required actions. (See Subordinate Actions on page 415.)
You have to spend all the actions of an activity at
once to gain its effects. In an encounter, this means you
must complete it during your turn. If an activity gets
interrupted or disrupted in an encounter (page 415), you
lose all the actions you committed to it.
Exploration and Downtime Activities
Outside of encounters, activities can take minutes, hours,
or even days. These activities usually have the exploration
or downtime trait to indicate they’re meant to be used
during these modes of play. You can often do other things
off and on as you carry out these activities, provided they
aren’t significant activities of their own. For instance, if
you’re Repairing an item, you might stretch your legs or
have a brief discussion, but you couldn’t Decipher Writing
at the same time.
If an activity outside of an encounter is interrupted or
disrupted, as described in Disrupting Actions on page 415,
you usually lose the time you put in, but no additional time.
Actions with Triggers
You can use free actions that have triggers and reactions
only in response to certain events. Each such reaction
and free action lists the trigger that must happen for
you to perform it. When its trigger is satisfied—and only
when it is satisfied—you can use the reaction or free
action, though you don’t have to use the action if you
don’t want to.
There are only a few basic reactions and free actions that
all characters can use. You’re more likely to gain actions
with triggers from your class, feats, and magic items.
Limitations on Triggers
The triggers listed in the stat blocks of reactions and some
free actions limit when you can use those actions. You
can use only one action in response to a given trigger.
For example, if you had a reaction and a free action that
both had a trigger of “your turn begins,” you could use
either of them at the start of your turn—but not both.
If two triggers are similar, but not identical, the GM
determines whether you can use one action in response
to each or whether they’re effectively the same thing.
Usually, this decision will be based on what’s happening
in the narrative.
This limitation of one action per trigger is per creature;
more than one creature can use a reaction or free action
in response to a given trigger. If multiple actions would
be occurring at the same time, and it’s unclear in what
order they happen, the GM determines the order based
on the narrative.
Other Actions
Sometimes you need to attempt something not already
covered by defined actions in the game. When this
happens, the rules tell you how many actions you need
to spend, as well as any traits your action might have.
For example, a spell that lets you switch targets might
say you can do so “by spending a single action, which
has the concentrate trait.” Game Masters can also use
this approach when a character tries to do something
that isn’t covered in the rules.
Gaining and Losing
Actions
Effects can change the number of actions you can use
on your turn, or whether you can use actions at all.
The slowed condition, for example, causes you to lose
actions, while the quickened condition causes you to
gain them. Conditions are detailed in the appendix
on pages 442–447. Whenever you lose a number of
actions—whether from these conditions or in any other
way—you choose which to lose if there’s any difference
between them. For instance, the haste spell makes you
quickened, but it limits what you can use your extra
action to do. If you lost an action while haste was active,
you might want to lose the action from haste first, since
it’s more limited than your normal actions.
Some effects are even more restrictive. Certain abilities,
instead of or in addition to changing the number of
actions you can use, say specifically that you can’t use
reactions. The most restrictive form of reducing actions
is when an effect states that you can’t act: this means
you can’t use any actions, or even speak. When you can’t
act, you still regain your actions unless another effect
(like the stunned condition) prevents it.
Disrupting Actions
Various abilities and conditions, such as a Reactive
Strike, can disrupt an action. When an action is disrupted,
you still use the actions or reactions you committed and
you still expend any costs, but the action’s effects don’t
occur. In the case of an activity, you usually lose all
actions spent for the activity up through the end of that
turn. For instance, if you began to Cast a Spell requiring
3 actions and the first action was disrupted, you lose all
3 actions that you committed to that activity.
The GM decides what effects a disruption causes
beyond simply negating the effects that would have
occurred from the disrupted action. For instance, a Leap
disrupted midway wouldn’t transport you back to the
start of your jump, and a disrupted item hand off might
cause the item to fall to the ground instead of staying in
the hand of the creature who was trying to give it away.
IN-DEPTH ACTION RULES

These rules clarify some of the specifics of using actions.

Simultaneous Actions

You can use only one single action, activity, or free action
that doesn’t have a trigger at a time. You must complete
one before beginning another. For example, the Sudden
Charge activity states you must Stride twice and then
Strike, so you couldn’t use an Interact action to open
a door in the middle of the movement, nor could you
perform part of the move, make your attack, and then
finish the move.
Free actions with triggers and reactions work
differently. You can use these whenever the trigger
occurs, even if the trigger occurs in the middle of
another action.

Subordinate Actions

An action might allow you to use a simpler action—
usually one of the Basic Actions on page 416—in a
different circumstance or with different effects. This
subordinate action still has its normal traits and effects,
but it’s modified in any ways listed in the larger action.
For example, an activity that tells you to Stride up to half
your Speed alters the normal distance you can move in a
Stride. The Stride would still have the move trait, would
still trigger reactions that occur based on movement,
and so on. The subordinate action doesn’t gain any
of the traits of the larger action unless specified. The
action that allows you to use a subordinate action
doesn’t require you to spend more actions or reactions
to do so; that cost is already factored in.
Using an activity is not the same as using any of
its subordinate actions. For example, the quickened
condition you get from the haste spell lets you spend
an extra action each turn to Stride or Strike, but you
couldn’t use the extra action for an activity that
includes a Stride or Strike. As another example, if you
used an action that specified, “If the next action you use
is a Strike,” an activity that includes a Strike wouldn’t
count, because the next thing you are doing is starting
an activity, not using the Strike basic action.
Basic Actions
Basic actions represent common tasks like moving
around, attacking, and helping others. As such, every
creature can use basic actions except in some extreme
circumstances, and many of those actions are used
very frequently. Most notably, you’ll use Interact, Step,
Stride, and Strike a great deal. Many feats and other
actions call upon you to use one of these basic actions or
modify them to produce different effects. For example,
a more complex action might let you Stride twice, and a
large number of activities include a Strike. An action or
activity might also modify a basic action, such as having
you Stride up to half your Speed.
Actions that are used less frequently but are still
available to most creatures are presented in Specialty
Basic Actions starting on page 418. These typically have
requirements that not all characters are likely to meet,
such as wielding a shield, having a burrow Speed, or
falling through the air.
In addition to the actions in these two sections, the
actions for spellcasting can be found on pages 299–300,
and the actions for using magic items appear on page
220 of GM Core.
Delay and Ready: If you want to change when you
take actions, two basic actions let you do so. Delay shifts
your entire turn later in the round, and Ready lets you
prepare to take one specific action when a trigger you
choose is met.
Basic Actions
AID [reaction]
Trigger An ally is about to use an action that requires a skill
check or attack roll.
Requirements The ally is willing to accept your aid, and you
have prepared to help (see below).
You try to help your ally with a task. To use this reaction,
you must first prepare to help, usually by using an action
during your turn. You must explain to the GM exactly how
you’re trying to help, and they determine whether you can
Aid your ally.
When you use your Aid reaction, attempt a skill check
or attack roll of a type decided by the GM. The typical DC
is 15, but the GM might adjust this DC for particularly hard
or easy tasks. The GM can add any relevant traits to your
preparatory action or to your Aid reaction depending on the
situation, or even allow you to Aid checks other than skill
checks and attack rolls.
Critical Success You grant your ally a +2 circumstance bonus
to the triggering check. If you’re a master with the check
you attempted, the bonus is +3, and if you’re legendary,
it’s +4.
Success You grant your ally a +1 circumstance bonus to the
triggering check.
Critical Failure Your ally takes a –1 circumstance penalty to
the triggering check.

CRAWL [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements You are prone and your Speed is at least 10 feet.
You move 5 feet by crawling and continue to stay prone.
DELAY [free-action]
Trigger Your turn begins.
You wait for the right moment to act. The rest of your
turn doesn’t happen yet. Instead, you’re removed from the
initiative order. You can return to the initiative order as a free
action triggered by the end of any other creature’s turn. This
permanently changes your initiative to the new position. You
can’t use reactions until you return to the initiative order. If
you Delay an entire round without returning to the initiative
order, the actions from the Delayed turn are lost, your
initiative doesn’t change, and your next turn occurs at your
original position in the initiative order.
When you Delay, any persistent damage or other negative
effects that normally occur at the start or end of your turn
occur immediately when you use the Delay action. Any
beneficial effects that would end at any point during your
turn also end. The GM might determine that other effects end
when you Delay as well. Essentially, you can’t Delay to avoid
negative consequences that would happen on your turn or to
extend beneficial effects that would end on your turn.
DROP PRONE [one-action]
MOVE
You fall prone.
ESCAPE [one-action]
ATTACK
You attempt to escape from being grabbed, immobilized, or
restrained. Choose one creature, object, spell effect, hazard,
or other impediment imposing any of those conditions on
you. Attempt a check using your unarmed attack modifier
against the DC of the effect. This is typically the Athletics
DC of a creature grabbing you, the Thievery DC of a creature
who tied you up, the spell DC for a spell effect, or the listed
Escape DC of an object, hazard, or other impediment. You
can attempt an Acrobatics or Athletics check instead of using
your attack modifier if you choose (but this action still has
the attack trait).
Critical Success You get free and remove the grabbed,
immobilized, and restrained conditions imposed by your
chosen target. You can then Stride up to 5 feet.
Success You get free and remove the grabbed, immobilized,
and restrained conditions imposed by your chosen target.
Critical Failure You don’t get free, and you can’t attempt to
Escape again until your next turn.
INTERACT [one-action]
MANIPULATE
You use your hand or hands to manipulate an object or the terrain.
You can grab an unattended or stored object, draw a weapon,
swap a held item for another (page 268), open a door, or achieve a
similar effect. On rare occasions, you might have to attempt a skill
check to determine if your Interact action was successful.
LEAP [one-action]
MOVE
You take a short horizontal or vertical jump. Jumping a
greater distance requires using the Athletics skill for a High
Jump or Long Jump (page 235).
• Horizontal Jump up to 10 feet horizontally if your Speed
is at least 15 feet, or up to 15 feet horizontally if your
Speed is at least 30 feet. You land in the space where
your Leap ends (meaning you can typically clear a 5-foot
gap, or a 10-foot gap if your Speed is 30 feet or more).
You can’t make a horizontal Leap if your Speed is less
than 15 feet.
• Vertical Jump up to 3 feet vertically and 5 feet
horizontally onto an elevated surface.
READY [two-actions]
CONCENTRATE
You prepare to use an action that will occur outside your
turn. Choose a single action or free action you can use, and
designate a trigger. Your turn then ends. If the trigger you
designated occurs before the start of your next turn, you can
use the chosen action as a reaction (provided you still meet
the requirements to use it). You can’t Ready a free action that
already has a trigger.
If you have a multiple attack penalty and your readied
action is an attack action, your readied attack takes the
multiple attack penalty you had at the time you used Ready.
This is one of the few times the multiple attack penalty
applies when it’s not your turn.
RELEASE [free-action]
MANIPULATE
You release something you’re holding in your hand or hands.
This might mean dropping an item, removing one hand from
your weapon while continuing to hold it in another hand,
releasing a rope suspending a chandelier, or performing a
similar action. Unlike most manipulate actions, Release does
not trigger reactions that can be triggered by actions with
the manipulate trait (such as Reactive Strike).
If you want to prepare to Release something outside of
your turn, use the Ready activity.
SEEK [one-action]
CONCENTRATE SECRET
You scan an area for signs of creatures or objects, possibly
including secret doors or hazards. Choose an area to scan.
The GM determines the area you can scan with one Seek
action—almost always 30 feet or less in any dimension. The
GM might impose a penalty if you search far away from you
or adjust the number of actions it takes to Seek a particularly
cluttered area.
The GM attempts a single secret Perception check for you
and compares the result to the Stealth DCs of any undetected

or hidden creatures in the area, or the DC to detect each
object in the area (as determined by the GM or by someone
Concealing the Object). A creature you detect might remain
hidden, rather than becoming observed, if you’re using an
imprecise sense or if an effect (such as invisibility) prevents
the subject from being observed.
Critical Success Any undetected or hidden creature you
critically succeeded against becomes observed by you.
You learn the location of objects in the area you critically
succeeded against.
Success Any undetected creature you succeeded against
becomes hidden from you instead of undetected, and any
hidden creature you succeeded against becomes observed
by you. You learn the location of any object or get a clue to
its whereabouts, as determined by the GM.
AID DETAILS

The following clarifications might be relevant when
Aiding an ally.
Long Tasks: For a task that takes longer than a round,
you often need to spend more than one action preparing
to help, as determined by the GM.
Proximity: You don’t necessarily need to be next to
your ally to aid, though you must be in a reasonable
location to help them both when you set up and when
you take the reaction.
Repetition: Aiding the same creature multiple times
can have diminishing returns. In particular, if you try to
repeatedly Aid attacks or skill checks against a creature,
the GM will usually increase the DC each time as your foe
gets more savvy. This isn’t the case if there’s no reason
the task would be less likely to work if repeated, such as
Aiding someone who’s climbing a wall or picking a lock.
SENSE MOTIVE [one-action]
CONCENTRATE SECRET
You try to tell whether a creature’s behavior is abnormal.
Choose one creature and assess it for odd body language, signs
of nervousness, and other indicators that it might be trying to
deceive someone. The GM attempts a single secret Perception
check for you and compares the result to the Deception DC of
the creature, the DC of a spell affecting the creature’s mental
state, or another appropriate DC determined by the GM. You
typically can’t try to Sense the Motive of the same creature
again until the situation changes significantly.
Critical Success You determine the creature’s true intentions
and get a solid idea of any mental magic affecting it.
Success You can tell whether the creature is behaving
normally, but you don’t know its exact intentions or what
magic might be affecting it.
Failure You detect what a deceptive creature wants you to
believe. If they’re not being deceptive, you believe they’re
behaving normally.
Critical Failure You get a false sense of the creature’s intentions.
STAND [one-action]
MOVE
You stand up from being prone.
STEP [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements Your Speed is at least 10 feet.
You carefully move 5 feet. Unlike most types of movement,
Stepping doesn’t trigger reactions, such as Reactive Strike,
that can be triggered by move actions or upon leaving or
entering a square.
You can’t Step into difficult terrain (page 423), and you
can’t Step using a Speed other than your land Speed.
STRIDE [one-action]
MOVE
You move up to your Speed (page 420).

STRIKE [one-action]
ATTACK
You attack with a weapon you’re wielding or with an
unarmed attack, targeting one creature within your reach
(for a melee attack) or within range (for a ranged attack). Roll
an attack roll using the attack modifier for the weapon or
unarmed attack you’re using, and compare the result to the
target creature’s AC to determine the effect.
Critical Success You make a damage roll according to the
weapon or unarmed attack and deal double damage (see
page 407 for rules on doubling damage).
Success You make a damage roll according to the weapon or
unarmed attack and deal damage.
STRIKE STATISTICS

See Attack Rolls on page 402 and Damage on page 404
for details on calculating your attack and damage rolls.
The damage roll for a Strike uses the damage die of the
weapon or unarmed attack, plus any modifiers, bonuses,
and penalties you have to damage. If you’re using a type of
attack other than a Strike, such as a spell attack or Grapple
action, you calculate damage differently (or not at all).
TAKE COVER [one-action]
Requirements You are benefiting from cover, are near a
feature that allows you to take cover, or are prone.
You press yourself against a wall or duck behind an
obstacle to take better advantage of cover (page 424). If
you would have standard cover, you instead gain greater
cover, which provides a +4 circumstance bonus to AC;
to Reflex saves against area effects; and to Stealth
checks to Hide, Sneak, or otherwise avoid detection.
Otherwise, you gain the benefits of standard cover
(a +2 circumstance bonus instead).
This lasts until you move from your
current space, use an attack action,
become unconscious, or end this effect
as a free action.
Specialty Basic Actions
These actions are useful under specific
circumstances. The Arrest a Fall,
Burrow, and Fly actions require you
to have a special movement type
(page 420). The climb and swim
Speeds use the corresponding actions
from the Athletics skill (pages 234–235).
ARREST A FALL [reaction]
Trigger You fall.
Requirements You have a fly Speed.
You attempt your choice of an Acrobatics check or Reflex save
to slow your fall. The DC is typically 15, but it might be higher
due to air turbulence or other circumstances.
Success You take no damage from the fall.
AVERT GAZE [one-action]
You avert your gaze from danger, such as a medusa’s gaze.
You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to saves against visual
abilities that require you to look at a creature or object, such
as a medusa’s petrifying gaze. Your gaze remains averted
until the start of your next turn.
BURROW [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements You have a burrow Speed.
You dig your way through dirt, sand, or a similar loose
material at a rate up to your burrow Speed. You can’t burrow
through rock or other substances denser than dirt unless you
have an ability that allows you to do so.
DISMISS [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
You end an effect that states you can Dismiss it. Dismissing
ends the entire effect unless noted otherwise.
FLY [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements You have a fly Speed.
You move through the air up to your fly Speed. Moving
upward (straight up or diagonally) uses the rules for moving
through difficult terrain. You can move straight down 10 feet
for every 5 feet of movement you spend. If you Fly to the
ground, you don’t take falling damage. You can use an action
to Fly 0 feet to hover in place. If you’re airborne at the end
of your turn and didn’t use a Fly action this round, you fall.
GRAB AN EDGE [reaction]
MANIPULATE
Trigger You fall from or past an edge or handhold.
Requirements Your hands are not tied behind your back or
otherwise restrained.
When you fall off or past an edge or other handhold, you
can try to grab it, potentially stopping your fall. You must
succeed at your choice of an Acrobatics check or a Reflex
save, usually at the Climb DC. If you grab the edge or
handhold, you can then Climb up using Athletics.
Critical Success You grab the edge or handhold, whether
or not you have a hand free, typically by using a suitable
held item to catch yourself (catching a battle axe on a
ledge, for example). You still take damage from the
distance fallen so far, but you treat the fall as though it
were 30 feet shorter.
Success If you have at least one hand free, you grab the edge
or handhold, stopping your fall. You still take damage from
the distance fallen so far, but you treat the fall as though
it were 20 feet shorter. If you have no hands free, you
continue to fall as if you had failed the check.
Critical Failure You continue to fall, and if you’ve fallen 20
feet or more before you use this reaction, you take 10
bludgeoning damage from the impact for every 20 feet
fallen.
SPEAKING

As long as you can act, you can also speak. You don’t need
to spend any type of action to speak, but because a round
represents 6 seconds of time, you can usually speak at
most a single sentence or so per round. Special uses of
speech, such as attempting a Deception skill check to
Lie, require spending actions and follow their own rules.
All speech has the auditory trait. If you communicate in
some way other than speech, other rules might apply. For
instance, using sign language is visual instead of auditory.
MOUNT [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements You are adjacent to a creature that is at least
one size larger than you and is willing to be your mount.
You move onto the creature and ride it. If you’re already
mounted, you can instead use this action to dismount,
moving off the mount into a space adjacent to it.
POINT OUT [one-action]
AUDITORY MANIPULATE VISUAL
Requirements A creature is undetected by one or more of
your allies but isn’t undetected by you.
You indicate a creature that you can see to one or more allies,
gesturing in a direction and describing the distance verbally.
That creature is hidden to your allies, rather than undetected
(page 434). This works only for allies who can see you and are
in a position where they could potentially detect the target. If
your allies can’t hear or understand you, they must succeed at
a Perception check against the creature’s Stealth DC or they
misunderstand and believe the target is in a different location.
RAISE A SHIELD [one-action]
Requirements You are wielding a shield.
You position your shield to protect yourself. When you have
Raised a Shield, you gain its listed circumstance bonus to AC.
Your shield remains raised until the start of your next turn.
SUSTAIN [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
Choose one of your effects that has a sustained duration or
lists a special benefit when you Sustain it. Most such effects
come from spells or magic item activations. If the effect
has a sustained duration, its duration extends until the end
of your next turn. (Sustaining more than once in the same
turn doesn’t extend the duration to subsequent turns.) If an
ability can be sustained but doesn’t list how long, it can be
sustained up to 10 minutes.
An effect might list an additional benefit that occurs if you
Sustain it, and this can even appear on effects that don’t have
a sustained duration. If the effect has both a special benefit
and a sustained duration, your Sustain action extends the
duration as well as having the special benefit.
If your Sustain action is disrupted, the ability ends.
MOVEMENT
Your movement and position determine how you interact with the world. Moving in
exploration and downtime modes is relatively fluid. Movement in encounter mode follows
additional rules explained in Tactical Movement (page 421). The rules below apply in all
modes of play.
Movement Types
Creatures in Pathfinder soar through the clouds, scale
sheer cliffs, and tunnel underfoot. The majority of
creatures have a Speed, which is how fast they can move
across the ground.
Some abilities give you different ways to move, such
as through the air or underground. Each of these special
movement types has its own Speed value. Many creatures
have these Speeds naturally, such as a bird having a fly
Speed or a fish having a swim Speed. The various types
of movement are listed below. Since the Stride action can
be used only with your normal Speed, moving using one
of these movement types requires using a special action,
and you can’t Step while using one of these movement
types. Since Speed by itself refers to your land Speed,
rules text concerning these special movement types
specifies the movement types to which it applies. Speeds
can be increased or decreased with item, circumstance,
and status bonuses and penalties. Penalties can’t reduce
your Speeds below 5 feet unless stated otherwise.
Switching from one movement type to another requires
ending your action that has the first movement type and
using a new action that has the second movement type.
For instance, if you Climbed 10 feet to the top of a cliff,
you could then Stride forward 10 feet. In some cases, the
GM might rule otherwise, especially if you’re moving a
very short distance using one of the types of movement.
Speed
Most characters and monsters have a Speed statistic
that indicates how quickly they can move across the
ground. This statistic is referred to as land Speed when
it’s necessary to differentiate it from special Speeds.
When you use the Stride action, you move a number of
feet equal to your Speed. Numerous other abilities also
allow you to move, from Crawling to Leaping, and most
of them are based on your Speed in some way. Whenever
a rule mentions your Speed without specifying a type,
it’s referring to your land Speed.
Burrow Speed
A burrow Speed lets you tunnel through the ground.
You can use the Burrow action (page 419) if you have
a burrow Speed. Burrowing doesn’t normally leave
behind a tunnel unless the ability specifically states that
it does. Most creatures need to hold their breath when
burrowing, and they might need tremorsense (page 433)
to navigate.
Climb Speed
A climb Speed allows you to move up or down inclines
and vertical surfaces. Most creatures need to succeed at
Athletics checks to Climb, but if you have a climb Speed,
you automatically succeed and move up to your climb
Speed instead of the listed distance.
You might still have to attempt Athletics checks to
Climb in hazardous conditions, to Climb extremely
difficult surfaces, or to cross horizontal planes such as
ceilings. You can also choose to roll an Athletics check to
Climb rather than accept an automatic success in hopes
of getting a critical success. Your climb Speed grants you
a +4 circumstance bonus to Athletics checks to Climb.
If you have a climb Speed, you’re not off-guard while
you’re climbing.
Fly Speed
As long as you have a fly Speed, you can use the Fly and
Arrest a Fall actions (page 418). You can also attempt to
Maneuver in Flight if you’re trained in the Acrobatics skill.
Wind conditions can affect how you use the Fly action.
In general, moving against the wind uses the same rules
as moving through difficult terrain (or greater difficult
terrain, if you’re also flying upward), and moving with
the wind allows you to move 10 feet for every 5 feet
of movement you spend (not cumulative with moving
straight downward). For more information on spending
movement, see Tactical Movement on page 421.
Upward and downward movement are both relative to
the gravity in your area; if you’re in zero gravity, moving
up or down is no different from moving horizontally.
Swim Speed
With a swim Speed, you can propel yourself through
the water with little impediment. Instead of attempting
Athletics checks to Swim, you automatically succeed
and move up to your swim Speed instead of the listed
distance. Moving up or down is still moving through
difficult terrain.
You might still have to attempt checks to Swim in
hazardous conditions or to cross turbulent water. You
can also choose to roll an Athletics check to Swim rather
than accept an automatic success in hopes of getting
a critical success. Your swim Speed grants you a +4
circumstance bonus to Athletics checks to Swim.
Having a swim Speed doesn’t necessarily mean you
can breathe in water, so you might still have to hold your
breath if you’re underwater to avoid drowning (page 437).
Falling
If you fall more than 5 feet, when you land you take
bludgeoning damage equal to half the distance you fell.
Treat falls longer than 1,500 feet as though they were
1,500 feet (750 damage). If you take any damage from
a fall, you land prone. You fall about 500 feet in the
first round of falling and about 1,500 feet each round
thereafter.
You can Grab an Edge as a reaction to reduce the
damage from some falls (page 419), or Arrest a Fall if
you have a fly Speed (page 418). In addition, if you fall
into water, snow, or another relatively soft substance,
you can treat the fall as though it were 20 feet shorter, or
30 feet shorter if you intentionally dove in. The effective
reduction can’t be greater than the depth (so when
falling into 10-foot-deep water, you treat the fall as 10
feet shorter).
Falling on a Creature
If you land on a creature, that creature must attempt a
DC 15 Reflex save. Intentionally aiming yourself to land
on a creature after a long fall is almost impossible.
Critical Success The creature takes no damage.
Success The creature takes bludgeoning damage equal to
one-quarter the falling damage you took.
Failure The creature takes bludgeoning damage equal to half
the falling damage you took.
Critical Failure The creature takes the same amount of
bludgeoning damage you took from the fall.
Falling Objects
A dropped object takes damage just like a falling
creature. If the object lands on a creature, that creature
can attempt a Reflex save using the same rules as for a
creature falling on a creature. Hazards and spells that
involve falling objects, such as a rock slide, have their
own rules about how they interact with creatures and
the damage they deal.
Tactical Movement
Your movement during encounter mode—and at other
times where precise movement matters—depends on the
actions and other abilities you use. Whether you Stride,
Step, Swim, or Climb, the maximum distance you can
move is based on your Speed. Certain feats or magic
items can grant you other movement types, allowing you
to swiftly burrow, climb, fly, or swim (page 420).
When the rules refer to a “movement cost” or
“spending movement,” they are describing how many
feet of your Speed you must use to move from one point
to another. Normally, movement costs the number of
feet you’re moving. However, sometimes it’s harder to
move a certain distance due to difficult terrain (page
423) or other factors. In such a case, you might have to
spend a different amount of movement to move from
one place to another.

Grid Movement
If an encounter involves combat, it’s often a good idea
to track the movement and relative position of the
participants using a Pathfinder Flip-Mat or some other
form of grid to display the terrain, and miniatures to
represent the combatants. When a character moves on
a grid, every 1-inch square of the play area is 5 feet
across in the game world. Hence, a creature moving in a
straight line spends 5 feet of its movement for every map
square traveled. Difficult terrain, described on page 423,
can make some squares cost more of your movement.
Diagonal Movement
Because moving diagonally covers more ground, you
count that movement differently. The first square of
diagonal movement you make in a turn counts as 5 feet,
but the second counts as 10 feet, and your count thereafter
alternates between the two. For example, as you move
across 4 squares diagonally, you would count 5 feet, then
10, then 5, and then 10, for a total of 30 feet. You track
your total diagonal movement across all your movement
during your turn, but reset your count at the end of your
turn. The diagram on page 423 shows an example.
3D Movement
Most movement in a game can be represented on a flat
map. If creatures are flying, swimming, or otherwise
moving through three-dimensional space, see the advice
on page 437 under Special Battles.
Size, Space, and Reach
Creatures and objects of different sizes occupy different
amounts of space. The sizes and the spaces they each
take up on a grid are listed in the Size and Reach table
(see below). The table also lists the typical reach for
creatures of each size, for both tall creatures (most
bipeds) and long creatures (most quadrupeds). See page
426 for more about reach.
The Space entry lists how many feet on a side a

creature’s space is, so a Large creature fills a 10-foot-by-
10-foot space, or 4 squares on the grid. (If you need to

measure in three dimensions, their space is also 10 feet
high.) Sometimes part of a creature extends beyond its
space, such as if a giant octopus is grabbing you with
its tentacles. In that case, the GM will usually allow
attacking the extended portion, even if you can’t reach
the main creature.
SIZE AND REACH
Size Space Reach (Tall) Reach (Long)
Tiny Less than 5 feet 0 feet 0 feet
Small 5 feet 5 feet 5 feet
Medium 5 feet 5 feet 5 feet
Large 10 feet 10 feet 5 feet
Huge 15 feet 15 feet 10 feet
Gargantuan 20 feet or more 20 feet 15 feet
A Small or larger creature or object takes up at least
1 square on a grid, and creatures of these sizes can’t
usually share spaces except in situations like a character
riding a mount.
Multiple Tiny creatures can occupy the same square.
At least four can fit in a single square, though the GM
might determine that even more can fit. Tiny creatures
can share a space occupied by a larger creature as well.
If a Tiny creature’s reach is 0 feet, it must share a space
with a creature in order to attack it.
REACTIONS TO MOVEMENT
Some reactions and free actions are triggered by a
creature using an action with the move trait. The most
notable example is Reactive Strike (reproduced below).
Actions with the move trait can trigger reactions or free
actions throughout the course of the distance traveled.
Each time you exit a square within a creature’s reach,
your movement triggers those reactions and free actions
(although no more than once per move action for a given
reacting creature). If you use a move action but don’t
move out of a square, the trigger instead happens at the
end of that action or ability.
Some actions, such as Step, specifically state they don’t
trigger reactions or free actions based on movement.
REACTIVE STRIKE [reaction]
Trigger A creature within your reach uses a manipulate
action or a move action, makes a ranged attack, or
leaves a square during a move action it’s using.
You lash out at a foe that leaves an opening. Make a melee
Strike against the triggering creature. If your attack is a
critical hit and the trigger was a manipulate action, you
disrupt that action. This Strike doesn’t count toward your
multiple attack penalty, and your multiple attack penalty
doesn’t apply to this Strike.
Moving Through a Creature’s Space
You can move through the space of a willing creature.
If you want to move through an unwilling creature’s
space, you can Tumble Through it (see Acrobatics on
page 233). You can’t end your turn in a square occupied
by another creature, though you can end a move action
in its square provided that you immediately use another
move action to leave that square. If two creatures end
up in the same square by accident, the GM determines
which one is forced out of the square (or whether one
falls prone).
Prone and Incapacitated Creatures
You can share a space with a prone creature if that
creature is willing, unconscious, or dead and if it is your
size or smaller. The GM might allow you to climb atop
the corpse or unconscious body of a larger creature in

some situations. A prone creature can’t stand up while
someone else occupies its space, but it can Crawl to a
space where it’s able to stand, or it can attempt to Shove
the other creature out of the way.
Creatures of Different Sizes
In most cases, you can move through the space of a creature
three sizes larger than you or larger. This means a Medium
creature can move through the space of a Gargantuan
creature and a Small creature can move through the space
of a Huge or Gargantuan creature. Likewise, a bigger
creature can move through the space of a creature three
sizes smaller than itself or smaller. You still can’t end your
movement in a space occupied by a creature.
Tiny creatures are an exception, just like with sharing
a space. They can move through creatures’ spaces and
can even end their movement there.
Objects
Because objects aren’t as mobile as creatures are, they’re
more likely to fill a space. This means you can’t always
move through their spaces like you might move through a
space occupied by a creature. You might be able to occupy
the same square as a statue of your size, but not a wide
column. The GM determines whether you can move into
an object’s square normally, whether special rules apply,
or if you are unable to move into the square at all.
Forced Movement
When an effect forces you to move, or if you start
falling, the distance you move is defined by the effect
that moved you, not by your Speed. Forced movement
doesn’t trigger reactions that are triggered by movement.
Some common causes of forced movement include the
Reposition and Shove actions of Athletics. In the rare
cases where it’s unclear whether your movement is
voluntary or forced, the GM makes the determination.
If forced movement would move you into a space
you can’t occupy—because objects are in the way or
because you lack the movement type needed to reach
it, for example—you stop moving in the last space you
can occupy.
Usually the creature or effect forcing the movement
chooses the path the victim takes. If you’re pushed or
pulled, you can usually be moved through hazardous
terrain, pushed off a ledge, or the like. Abilities that
reposition you in some other way can’t put you in such
dangerous places unless they specify otherwise. In all
cases, the GM makes the final call if there’s doubt on
where forced movement can move a creature.
Some abilities allow a creature to move while carrying
another along with it. This is forced movement for the
carried creature. Unless noted otherwise, they both
move on the same path while this happens—the carrying
creature can’t drag its victim through dangers while
avoiding them itself, for example.
COUNTING MOVEMENT
Lini decides to Stride. She has a Speed
of 20 feet. She moves straight south,
spending 5 feet of her Speed, then
diagonally, spending another 5 feet. Her
next diagonal move, because it’s her
second diagonal of the turn, costs her 10
feet of movement. She’s spent all 20 feet
of her Speed and ends that Stride.
She Seeks, and something catches her
eye to the northeast, so she decides to
move toward it. However, the crumbled
stone is difficult terrain, so each square
costs 5 more feet of Speed. She moves
diagonally, spending 10 feet of movement
since this is an odd-numbered diagonal.
She wants to move northeast again, but
that would cost her 15 feet (10 feet for
an even-numbered diagonal and 5 more
for being difficult terrain). Instead, she
decides to move directly north. This
costs her 10 feet, so she’s used all 20 feet
of her Speed and is out of actions.
Terrain
Several types of terrain can complicate your movement
by slowing you down, damaging you, or endangering
you. Navigating these types of terrain can be challenging,
but it can also let you get an advantage over your foes.
Difficult Terrain
Difficult terrain is any terrain that impedes your
movement, ranging from particularly rough or unstable
surfaces to thick ground cover and countless other
impediments. Moving into a square of difficult terrain
(or moving 5 feet into or within an area of difficult
terrain, if you’re not using a grid) costs an extra 5 feet
of movement. Moving into a square of greater difficult
terrain instead costs 10 additional feet of movement.
This additional cost is not increased further when
moving diagonally. You can’t Step into difficult terrain.
Movement you make while jumping ignores the
terrain you’re jumping over. Some abilities (such as flight
or being incorporeal) allow you to avoid the movement
reduction from some types of difficult terrain.
Ignore Difficult Terrain
Certain abilities let you ignore difficult terrain. If you
can ignore difficult terrain, you can also move through
greater difficult terrain at the extra movement cost
difficult terrain normally imposes. An ability doesn’t let
you entirely ignore greater difficult terrain unless the
ability specifies otherwise.

Hazardous Terrain
Hazardous terrain damages you whenever you move
through it. An acid pool and a pit of burning embers are
both examples of hazardous terrain. The amount and
type of damage depend on the specific hazardous terrain.
Narrow Surfaces
A narrow surface is so precariously thin that you need
to Balance (see Acrobatics on page 233) or risk falling.
Even on a success, you are off-guard on a narrow
surface. Each time you are hit by an attack or fail a save
on a narrow surface, you must succeed at a Reflex save
(with the same DC as the Acrobatics check to Balance)
or fall.
Uneven Ground
Uneven ground is an area unsteady enough that you
need to Balance (see Acrobatics on page 233) or risk
falling prone and possibly injuring yourself, depending
on the specifics of the uneven ground. You are off-guard
on uneven ground. Each time you are hit by an attack
or fail a save on uneven ground, you must succeed at a
Reflex save (with the same DC as the Acrobatics check
to Balance) or fall prone.
Inclines
An incline is an area so steep that you need to Climb
using the Athletics skill in order to progress upward.
You’re off-guard when Climbing an incline.
COVER

1. Valeros and the ogre don’t have any
cover from one another. The line
from the center of Valeros’s space to
the center of the ogre’s space doesn’t
pass through blocking terrain or other
creatures.
2. The ogre and Ezren have lesser cover
from one another. The line between
the centers of their spaces doesn’t
pass through any blocking terrain, but
does pass through Valeros’s space.
3. The ogre and Merisiel have cover
from one another. The line between
the centers of their spaces crosses
blocking terrain.
4. Kyra and the ogre can barely see one
another, but have cover from one
another because the line between the
centers of their spaces goes through
blocking terrain. Because there’s so
much blocking terrain in the way, the
GM will likely rule this is greater cover.
Cover
When you’re behind an obstacle that could block
weapons, guard you against explosions, and make you
harder to detect, you’re behind cover. Standard cover
gives you a +2 circumstance bonus to AC, to Reflex
saves against area effects, and to Stealth checks to Hide,
Sneak, or otherwise avoid detection. You can increase
this to greater cover using the Take Cover basic action
(page 418), increasing the circumstance bonus to +4.
If cover is especially light, typically when it’s provided
by a creature, you have lesser cover, which grants a +1
circumstance bonus to AC. A creature with standard
cover or greater cover can attempt to use Stealth to
Hide, but lesser cover isn’t sufficient.
Type of Cover Bonus Can Hide
Lesser +1 to AC No
Standard +2 to AC, Reflex, Stealth Yes
Greater +4 to AC, Reflex, Stealth Yes
Cover is relative, so you might simultaneously have
cover against one creature and not another. Cover applies
only if your path to the target is partially blocked. If a
creature is entirely behind a wall or the like, you don’t
have line of effect (page 426) and typically can’t target
it at all.
Usually, the GM can quickly decide whether your
target has cover. If you’re uncertain or need to be more
precise, draw a line from the center of your space to the

center of the target’s space. If that line passes through any
terrain or object that would block the effect, the target
has standard cover (or greater cover if the obstruction is
extreme or the target has Taken Cover). If the line passes
through a creature instead, the target has lesser cover.
When measuring cover against an area effect, draw the
line from the effect’s point of origin to the center of the
creature’s space. See the diagram for examples.
Cover and Large Creatures
If a creature between you and a target is two or more
sizes larger than both you and your target, that creature’s
space blocks the effect enough to provide standard
cover instead of lesser cover. The GM might determine
that a creature doesn’t gain cover from terrain that it’s
significantly larger than. For example, a Huge dragon
probably wouldn’t receive any benefit from being behind
a 1-foot-wide pillar.
Special Circumstances
Your GM might allow you to overcome your target’s
cover in some situations. If you’re right next to an arrow
slit, you can shoot without penalty, but you have greater
cover against someone shooting back at you from far
away. Your GM might let you reduce or negate cover by
leaning around a corner to shoot or the like. This usually
takes an action to set up, and the GM might measure
cover from an edge or corner of your space instead of
your center.
FLANKING

1. Valeros and Kyra are flanking the
ogre because they can draw a line
to each other that passes through
opposite sides of the ogre’s space. The
ogre is off-guard to them, taking a –2
circumstance penalty to its AC.
2. Merisiel isn’t flanking the ogre because
she can’t draw a line to Valeros or Kyra
that passes through opposite sides of
the ogre’s space, and the ogre is not in
Feiya’s reach.
3. The hobgoblin and ogre flank Feiya,
since she is within reach for both, and
they can draw a line between them
that passes through opposite sides
of her space. If the ogre didn’t have
10 feet of reach, the two creatures
wouldn’t flank her.
Flanking
When you and an ally are flanking a foe, it has a harder
time defending against you. A creature is off-guard
(taking a –2 circumstance penalty to AC) to melee
attacks from creatures that are flanking it.
To flank a foe, you and your ally must be on opposite
sides of the creature. A line drawn between the center of
your space and the center of your ally’s space must pass
through opposite sides or opposite corners of the foe’s
space. Additionally, both you and the ally have to be
able to act, you must be wielding melee weapons or be
able to make an unarmed attack, you can’t be under any
effects that prevent you from attacking, and you must
both have the enemy within reach. If you are wielding a
reach weapon, you use your reach with that weapon for
this purpose.
3D Flanking
Though battle grids are often two-dimensional, the
game world isn’t! Sometimes you might need to visualize
a creature’s space as a cube for flanking. For instance,
if Valeros is underneath a flying sphinx while Lini is
flying above the sphinx, they might be flanking it even
if they’re piled in an odd stack on your battle grid. And
if Valeros were mounted on a horse, he might be able to
measure from farther off the ground than normal.
In these cases, it’s usually best to have the GM make
the call on who’s flanking rather than trying to do
meticulous measurements in three dimensions.
TINY CREATURES AND FLANKING
Tiny creatures usually have reach of 0 feet and need to
be in a creature’s space to attack it. This makes a Tiny
creature unable to flank unless it’s able to use a weapon
with reach or has a melee unarmed attack with reach
greater than 0 feet.
The GM might allow Tiny creatures to flank other Tiny
creatures if they’re all in the same square, but this is
best left for special circumstances and uses the GM’s
best judgment.

AVOIDING FLANKING

Flanking is an excellent battle tactic that can cause
the flanked creature to get hit much more often.
Escaping and avoiding flanks can be crucial for a player
character’s survival.
Movement: The most straightforward means to
escape a flank is usually to Stride. It’s often worth it to
avoid the hits you’d take due to being off-guard and to
make enemies spend actions moving to catch you.
All-Around Vision: Some monsters are covered in eyes
that face multiple directions or are otherwise hard to
distract, making them immune to flanking.
Deny Advantage: Some classes, such as rogue, can gain
the deny advantage class feature, makes them harder to
outflank. You can’t flank a creature with deny advantage
unless your level is higher than the creature’s.
EFFECTS
Anything you do in the game has an effect. Many of these outcomes are easy to adjudicate
during the game. If you tell the GM that you draw your sword, no check is needed. Other
times, the specific effect requires more detailed rules governing how your choice is resolved.
Many spells, magic items, and feats create specific effects,
and your character will be subject to effects caused by
monsters, hazards, the environment, and other characters.
Effects sometimes require checks, but not always.
Casting a fly spell on yourself creates an effect that allows
you to soar through the air, but casting the spell does not
require a check. Conversely, using the Intimidate skill to
Demoralize a foe does require a check, and your result
on that check determines the effect’s outcome.
Duration
Most effects are discrete, creating an instantaneous
effect when you let the GM know what actions you are
going to use. Firing a bow, moving to a new space, or
taking something out of your pack all resolve instantly.
Other effects instead last for a certain duration. Once the
duration has elapsed, the effect ends. The rules generally
use the following conventions for durations, though spells
have some special durations detailed on pages 302.
For an effect that lasts a number of rounds, the remaining
duration decreases by 1 at the start of each turn of the
creature that created the effect. Detrimental effects often
last “until the end of the target’s next turn” or “through” a
number of their turns (such as “through the target’s next 3
turns”), which means that the effect’s duration decreases at
the end of the creature’s turn, rather than the start.
Instead of lasting a fixed number of rounds, a duration
might end only when certain conditions are met (or cease to
be true). If so, the effects last until those conditions are met.
Some effects can be ended early with the Dismiss action
(page 419). An effect with the sustained duration lasts
until the end of your next turn, but it can be extended as
described in the Sustain action (page 419).
Range and Reach
Abilities that generate an effect typically work within a
specified range or a reach. Most spells and abilities list a
range—the maximum distance from the creature or object
creating the effect in which the effect can occur.
Ranged and thrown weapons have a range increment.
Attacks with such weapons work normally up to that range.
Attacks against targets beyond that range take a –2 penalty,
which worsens by 2 for every additional multiple of that
range, to a maximum of a –10 penalty after five additional
range increments. Attacks beyond this range are not possible.
For example, using a shortbow, your attacks take no penalty
against a target up to 60 feet away, a –2 penalty if a target is
over 60 and up to 120 feet away, a –4 if they’re over 120 and
up to 180 feet away, and so on, up to a maximum of 360 feet.

Reach is how far you can physically reach with your body
or a weapon. Melee Strikes rely on reach. Your reach is
typically 5 feet, but weapons with the reach trait can extend
this. Larger creatures can have greater reach; for instance,
an ogre has a 10-foot reach. Unlike with measuring most
distances, 10-foot reach can reach 2 squares diagonally.
Reach greater than 10 feet is measured normally: 20-foot
reach can reach 3 squares diagonally, 30-foot reach can
reach 4, and so on.
Targets
Some effects require you to choose specific targets.
Targeting can be difficult or impossible if your chosen
creature is undetected by you, if the creature doesn’t
match restrictions on who you can target, or if some
other ability prevents it from being targeted.
Some effects require a target to be willing. Only you can
decide whether your PC is willing, and the GM decides
whether an NPC is willing. Even if you or your character
don’t know what the effect is, such as if your character is
unconscious, you still decide if you’re willing.
Some effects target or require an ally, or otherwise
refer to an ally. This must be someone on your side, often
another PC, but it might be a bystander you are trying to
protect. You don’t count as your own ally. If it isn’t clear,
the GM decides who counts as an ally or an enemy.
Areas
Some effects occupy an area of a specified shape and size.
An area effect always has a point of origin and extends out
from that point. There are four types of areas: emanations,
bursts, cones, and lines. See page 428 for details.
Line of Effect
When creating an effect, you usually need an unblocked
path to the target of a spell, the origin point of an effect’s
area, or the place where you create something with a spell
or other ability. This is called a line of effect. You have line
of effect unless a creature is entirely behind a solid physical
barrier. Visibility doesn’t matter for line of effect, nor do
portcullises and other barriers that aren’t totally solid.
Usually a 1-foot-square gap is enough to maintain a line of
effect, though the GM makes the final call.
In an area effect, creatures or targets must have line of
effect to the point of origin to be affected. If there’s no line
of effect between the origin of the area and the target, the
effect doesn’t apply to that target. For example, if there’s
a solid wall between the origin of a fireball and a creature
that’s within the burst radius, the wall blocks the effect—
that creature is unaffected by the fireball and doesn’t need
to attempt a save against it. Likewise, any ongoing effects
created by an ability with an area cease to affect anyone
who moves outside of the line of effect.
CONDITIONS

Some effects apply conditions to a creature or item. These change your state of being in some way.
Conditions are persistent, lasting until the stated duration ends, the condition is removed, or terms
dictated in the condition cause it to end. Full rules appear in the Conditions Appendix (pages 442–447).
Blinded: You’re unable to see.
Broken: This item can’t be used for its normal function until repaired.
Clumsy: You can’t move as easily or gracefully as usual.
Concealed: Fog or similar obscuration makes you difficult to see and target.
Confused: You attack indiscriminately.
Controlled: Another creature determines your actions.
Dazzled: Everything is concealed to you.
Deafened: You’re unable to hear.
Doomed: With your soul in peril, you are now closer to death.
Drained: Blood loss or something similar has leached your vitality.
Dying: You’re slipping closer to death.
Encumbered: You’re carrying more weight than you can manage.
Enfeebled: Your strength has been sapped away.
Fascinated: You are compelled to focus your attention on something.
Fatigued: Your defenses are lower and you can’t use exploration activities
while traveling.
Fleeing: You must run away.
Friendly: An NPC with this condition has a good attitude toward you.
Frightened: Fear makes you less capable of attacking and defending.
Grabbed: A creature, object, or magic holds you in place.
Helpful: An NPC with this condition wants to assist you.
Hidden: A creature you’re hidden from knows your location but can’t see
you.
Hostile: An NPC with this condition wants to harm you.
Immobilized: You can’t move.
Indifferent: An NPC with this condition doesn’t have a strong opinion
about you.
Invisible: Creatures can’t see you.
Observed: You’re in plain view.
Off-Guard: You’re unable to defend yourself to your full capability.
Paralyzed: Your body is frozen in place.
Persistent Damage: You keep taking damage every round.
Petrified: You’ve been turned to stone.
Prone: You’re lying on the ground and easier to attack.
Quickened: You get an extra action each turn.
Restrained: You’re tied up and can’t move, or a grappling creature has you
pinned.
Sickened: You’re sick to your stomach.
Slowed: You lose actions each turn.
Stunned: You can’t use actions.
Stupefied: You can’t access your full mental faculties, and you have trouble casting spells.
Unconscious: You’re asleep or knocked out.
Undetected: A creature you’re undetected by doesn’t know where you are.
Unfriendly: An NPC with this condition doesn’t like you.
Unnoticed: A creature is entirely unaware you’re present.
Wounded: You’ve been brought back from the brink of death but haven’t fully recovered.
Line of Sight
Some effects require you to have line of sight to your
target. As long as you can precisely sense the area (as

described in Perception on page 433) and it is not
blocked by a solid barrier (as described in Cover on
page 424), you have line of sight. An area of darkness
prevents line of sight if you don’t have darkvision,
but portcullises and other obstacles that aren’t totally
solid do not. Usually a 1-foot-square gap is enough to
maintain line of sight, though the GM makes the final
call.
AREA
An area always has a point of origin and extends out from that point. There are four types
of areas: emanations, bursts, cones, and lines.
When you’re playing in encounter mode and using a grid,
areas are measured in the same way as movement (page
420), but areas’ distances are never affected by difficult
terrain. Standard or greater cover can apply against
areas, but not lesser cover. You can use the diagrams
on page 429 as common reference templates for areas,
rather than measuring squares each time. Many area
effects describe only the effects on creatures in the area.
The GM determines any effects to the environment and
unattended objects.
Burst
A burst effect issues forth in all directions from a
single corner of a square within the range of the effect,
spreading in all directions to a specified radius. For
instance, when you cast fireball, it detonates at the corner
of a square within 500 feet of you and creates a 20-foot
burst, meaning it extends out 20 feet in every direction
from the corner of the square you chose, affecting each
creature whose space (or even one square of its space) is
within the burst.

Cone
A cone shoots out from you in a quarter circle on the
grid. When you aim a cone, the first square of that cone
must share an edge with your space if you’re aiming
orthogonally, or it must touch a corner of your space
if you’re aiming diagonally. If you’re Large or larger,
the first square can run along the edge of any square
of your space. You can’t aim a cone so that it overlaps
your space. The cone extends out for a number of feet,
widening as it goes, as shown in the Areas diagram. For
instance, if you cast the breathe fire spell, you create a
cone of flames that originates at the edge of one square
of your space and affects a quarter-circle area 15 feet on
each edge.
If you make a cone originate elsewhere, use these
same rules, with the first square of the cone using an
edge or corner of that creature or object’s space instead
of your own.
Emanation
An emanation issues forth from each side of your
space, extending out to a specified number of feet in
all directions. For instance, the bless spell’s emanation
radiates 15 or more feet outward from the
caster. Because the sides of a creature’s
space are the starting point for
the emanation, an emanation
from a Large or larger creature
affects a greater overall area
than that of a Medium or
smaller creature. Unless
the text states otherwise,
the creature creating
an emanation effect
chooses whether
the creature at its
center is affected.
Line
A line shoots forth from
you, following a straight
path in a direction of your
choosing. The line affects
each creature whose space
it overlaps. Unless a line
effect says otherwise, it is
5 feet wide. For example,
the lightning bolt spell’s
area is a 60-foot line
that’s 5 feet wide.
AFFLICTIONS
Diseases and poisons are types of afflictions, as are curses and radiation. An affliction
can infect a creature for a long time, progressing through different and often increasingly
debilitating stages.
Format
Whether appearing in a spell, as an item, or within a
creature’s stat block, afflictions appear in the following
format.
Name and Traits
The affliction’s name is given first, followed by its traits in
parentheses—including the trait for the type of affliction
(curse, disease, poison, and so forth). If the affliction
needs to have a level specified, it follows the parentheses,
followed by any unusual details, such as restrictions on
removing the conditions imposed by an affliction. If no
level is listed, the affliction matches the level of the
creature, hazard, or item causing
the affliction.
Saving Throw
When you’re first exposed
to the affliction, you
must attempt a saving
throw against it. This first
attempt to stave off the affliction is called the
initial save. An affliction usually requires a
Fortitude save, but the exact save and its DC are listed
after the name and type of affliction. Spells that can
cause an affliction typically use the caster’s spell DC.
On a successful initial saving throw, you are unaffected
by that exposure to the affliction. You don’t need to
attempt further saving throws against it unless you are
exposed to the affliction again.
If you fail the initial saving throw, you advance to
stage 1 of the affliction and are subjected to the listed
effect. On a critical failure, after its onset period (if
applicable), you advance to stage 2 of the affliction and
are subjected to that effect instead.
Onset
Some afflictions have onset times. For these afflictions,
once you fail your initial save, you don’t gain the effects
for the first stage of the affliction until the onset time has
elapsed. If this entry is absent, you gain the effects for
the first stage (or the second stage on a critical failure)
immediately upon failing the initial saving throw.
Maximum Duration
If an affliction lasts only a limited amount of time, it
lists a maximum duration. Once this duration passes,
the affliction ends. Otherwise, it lasts until you succeed
at enough saves to recover, as described in Stages below.

Stages
An affliction typically has multiple stages, each of which
lists an effect followed by an interval in parentheses.
When you reach a given stage of an affliction, you are
subjected to the effects listed for that stage.
At the end of a stage’s listed interval, you must
attempt a new saving throw. On a success, you reduce
the stage by 1; on a critical success, you reduce the stage
by 2. You are then subjected to the effects of the new
stage. If the affliction’s stage is ever reduced below stage
1, the affliction ends and you don’t need to attempt
further saves unless you’re exposed to the
affliction again.

On a failure, the
stage increases by 1;
on a critical failure, the
stage increases by 2. You
are then subjected to the
effects listed for the new
stage. If a failure or critical failure would
increase the stage beyond the highest listed
stage, the affliction instead repeats the effects of
the highest stage.
Damage and Conditions
Any damage listed for a stage happens immediately
when you reach that stage. Conditions affect you when
you reach the stage and last for their normal duration.
For instance, if you were drained for an affliction with
a maximum duration of 5 minutes, you remain drained
after the affliction ends, as normal for the drained
condition. A condition that automatically changes
its value or ends under certain circumstances, like
frightened, still does so. Any condition that doesn’t have
a default duration, such as clumsy or paralyzed, lasts as
long as you’re at that stage unless noted otherwise, as do
any penalties or any other effect of the stage that doesn’t
list a duration.
Multiple Exposures
Multiple exposures to the same curse or disease currently
affecting you have no effect. For a poison, however,
failing the initial saving throw against a new exposure
increases the stage by 1 (or by 2 if you critically fail)
without affecting the maximum duration. This is true
even if you’re within the poison’s onset period, though
it doesn’t change the onset length. If the poison does
not have an onset time or it’s already elapsed, you are
immediately subject to the effects of the new stage.
Virulent Afflictions
Afflictions with the virulent trait are harder to remove.
You must succeed at two consecutive saves to reduce a
virulent affliction’s stage by 1. A critical success reduces
a virulent affliction’s stage by only 1 instead of by 2.

AFFLICTION EXAMPLE
To see how a poison works, let’s look at arsenic.
Arsenic (poison) You can’t reduce your sickened
condition while affected by arsenic; Saving Throw DC
18 Fortitude; Onset 10 minutes; Maximum Duration 5
minutes; Stage 1 1d4 poison damage and sickened 1 (1
minute); Stage 2 1d6 poison damage and sickened 2
(1 minute); Stage 3 2d6 poison damage and sickened
3 (1 minute)
If you drank a glass of wine laced with arsenic, you
would attempt an initial Fortitude save against the listed
DC of 18. If you fail, you advance to stage 1. Because
of the onset time, nothing happens for 10 minutes, but
once this time passes, you take 1d4 poison damage and
become sickened 1. As noted, you’re unable to reduce the
sickened condition. The interval of stage 1 is 1 minute (as
shown in parentheses), so you attempt a new save after
1 minute passes. If you succeed, you reduce the stage
by 1, recovering from the poison. If you fail again, the
stage increases by 1 to stage 2, and you take 1d6 poison
damage and become sickened 2.
If your initial save against the arsenic was a critical
failure, after the onset time, you would advance directly
to stage 2. After the 10-minute onset time, you would take
1d6 poison damage and become sickened 2. Succeeding
at your second save would reduce the stage by 1 to stage
1, and you’d take only 1d4 poison damage. Failing the
second save would increase by 1 again to stage 3.
If you reach stage 3 of the poison, either by failing
while at stage 2 or critically failing while at stage 1, you’d
take 2d6 poison damage and be sickened 3. If you failed
or critically failed your saving throw while at stage 3, you
would repeat the effects of stage 3.
Since the poison has a maximum duration of 5 minutes,
you recover from it once the 5 minutes pass, no matter
which stage you’re at.
Removing Afflictions
Apart from waiting them out, afflictions can be removed
through certain uses of the skills and spells. The Treat
Disease and Treat Poison uses of Medicine are commonly
used to treat those afflictions.
The cleanse affliction spell is also available to most
spellcasters. Spells that counteract conditions at the
source, such as sound body, can also be effective against
diseases and poisons that cause those conditions.
Curses are trickier, requiring solutions that specifically
mention them, such as a 4th-rank cleanse affliction or
the Break Curse skill feat.
COUNTERACTING

Some effects try to counteract spells, afflictions,
conditions, or other effects. Counteract checks compare
the power of two forces and determine which defeats
the other. Successfully counteracting an effect disrupts
it (page 415), preventing it from having any effect, unless
noted otherwise.
When attempting a counteract check, add the relevant
skill modifier or other appropriate modifier to your
check against the target’s DC. If you’re counteracting
an affliction, the DC is in the affliction’s stat block. If it’s
a spell, use the caster’s DC. The GM can also calculate
a DC based on the target effect’s level. For spells, the
counteract check modifier is your spellcasting attribute
modifier plus your spellcasting proficiency bonus, plus
any bonuses and penalties that specifically apply to
counteract checks.
What you can counteract depends on the check result
and the target’s counteract rank. If an effect is a spell,
its rank is the counteract rank. Otherwise, halve its level
and round up to determine its counteract rank (minimum
counteract rank 0). If an effect’s level is unclear and it
came from a creature, halve and round up the creature’s
level.
Critical Success Counteract the target if its counteract
rank is no more than 3 higher than your effect’s
counteract rank.
Success Counteract the target if its counteract rank is no
more than 1 higher than your effect’s counteract rank.
Failure Counteract the target if its counteract rank is
lower than your effect’s counteract rank.
Critical Failure You fail to counteract the target.
Counteract Table

This table provides a reference for what an effect can
counteract based on its rank and the check result. The
first number in each column is the counteract rank at
which you can counteract an effect based on your degree
of success. The numbers in parentheses are the typical
level range corresponding to that rank.
Counteract Critical
Rank Failure Success Success
0 — 1 (1 to 2) 3 (5 to 6)
1 0 (–1 to 0) 2 (3 to 4) 4 (7 to 8)
2 1 (1 to 2) 3 (5 to 6) 5 (9 to 10)
3 2 (3 to 4) 4 (7 to 8) 6 (11 to 12)
4 3 (5 to 6) 5 (9 to 10) 7 (13 to 14)
5 4 (7 to 8) 6 (11 to 12) 8 (15 to 16)
6 5 (9 to 10) 7 (13 to 14) 9 (17 to 18)
7 6 (11 to 12) 8 (15 to 16) 10 (19 to 20)
8 7 (13 to 14) 9 (17 to 18) 11 (21 to 22)
9 8 (15 to 16) 10 (19 to 20) 12 (23 to 24)
10 9 (17 to 18) 11 (21 to 22) 13 (25 to 26)
PERCEPTION AND DETECTION
Your Perception measures your ability to notice things, search for what’s hidden, and tell
whether something about a situation is suspicious.
Perception is frequently used for rolling initiative in an
encounter, and for the Seek action. See page 404 for the
procedure for rolling a Perception check.
Light
There are three levels of light: bright light, dim light, and
darkness. The rules in this book assume that all creatures
are in bright light unless otherwise noted. A source of
light lists the radius in which it sheds bright light, and it
sheds dim light to double that radius.
Bright Light
In bright light, such as sunlight, creatures and objects can
be observed clearly by anyone with average vision or better.
Dim Light
Areas in shadow or lit by weak light sources are in dim
light. Creatures and objects in dim light have the concealed
condition, unless the seeker has darkvision or low-light
vision (see page 433), or a precise sense other than vision.

Darkness
A creature or object within darkness is hidden or
undetected unless the seeker has darkvision or a precise
sense other than vision. A creature without darkvision or
another means of perceiving in darkness has the blinded
condition while in darkness, though it might be able to see
illuminated areas beyond the darkness. If a creature can
see into an illuminated area, it can observe creatures within
that illuminated area normally. After being in darkness,
sudden exposure to bright light might make you dazzled
for a short time, as determined by the GM.
Senses
The ways a creature can use Perception depend on what
senses it has. The primary concepts you need to know
for understanding senses are precise senses, imprecise
senses, and the three states of detection a target can be in:
observed, hidden, or undetected. Vision, hearing, and scent
are three prominent senses, but each has a different degree
of acuity.
Precise Senses
Average vision is a precise sense—a sense that can be
used to perceive the world in nuanced detail. The only
way to target a creature without having drawbacks is
to use a precise sense. You can usually detect a creature
automatically with a precise sense unless that creature is
hiding or obscured by the environment, in which case you
can use the Seek basic action to better detect the creature.
Imprecise Senses
Average hearing is an imprecise sense—it can’t detect the
full range of detail that a precise sense can. You can usually
sense a creature automatically with an imprecise sense,
but it has the hidden condition instead of the observed
condition. It might be undetected by you if it’s using Stealth
or is in an environment that distorts the sense, such as a
noisy room in the case of hearing. In those cases, you have
to use the Seek basic action to detect the creature. At best,
an imprecise sense can be used to make an undetected
creature (or one you didn’t even know was there) merely
hidden—it can’t make the creature observed.
Vague Senses
A character also has many vague senses—ones that can alert
you that something is there but aren’t useful for zeroing in
on it to determine exactly what it is. The most useful of these
for a typical character is the sense of smell. At best, a vague
sense can be used to detect the presence of an unnoticed
creature, making it undetected. Even then, the vague sense
isn’t sufficient to make the creature hidden or observed.
When one creature might detect another, the GM
almost always uses the most precise sense available.
Pathfinder’s rules assume that a given creature has vision
as its only precise sense and hearing as its only imprecise
sense. Some characters and creatures, however, have precise
or imprecise senses that don’t match this assumption. For
instance, a character with poor vision might treat that sense
as imprecise, an animal with the scent ability can use its
sense of smell as an imprecise sense, and a creature with
echolocation or a similar ability can use hearing as a precise
sense. Such senses are often given special names and appear
as “echolocation (precise),” “scent (imprecise) 30 feet,” etc.
Special Senses
While a human might have a difficult time making creatures
out in dim light, an elf can see those creatures just fine. And
though elves have no problem seeing on a moonlit night,
their vision can’t penetrate complete darkness, whereas a
dwarf’s can. Special senses allow a creature to ignore or
reduce the effects of the undetected, hidden, or concealed
conditions (described on page 434) when it comes to
situations that foil average vision.
Darkvision and Greater Darkvision
A creature with darkvision or greater darkvision can see
perfectly well in areas of darkness and dim light, though
such vision is in black and white only. Some forms of
magical darkness, such as a 4th-rank darkness spell, block
normal darkvision. A creature with greater darkvision,
however, can see through even these forms of magical
darkness.
DETECTING WITH OTHER SENSES
Most abilities that designate “a creature you can see”
or the like function just as well if the user can precisely
sense the subject with a different sense. If a monster
uses a sense other than vision, the GM can adapt ways of
avoiding detection that work with the monster’s senses.
For example, a creature that has echolocation might use
hearing as a primary sense. This could mean its quarry is
concealed in a noisy chamber, hidden in a great enough
din, or invisible under a silence spell.
Using Stealth with Other Senses
The Stealth skill is designed to use Hide for avoiding
visual detection and Avoid Notice and Sneak to avoid
being both seen and heard. For many special senses, a
player can describe how they’re avoiding detection by
that special sense and use the most applicable Stealth
action. For instance, a creature stepping lightly to avoid
being detected via tremorsense would be using Sneak.
In some cases, rolling a Dexterity-based Stealth skill
check to Sneak doesn’t make the most sense. For example,
a PC trying to avoid being detected by a creature that
senses heartbeats might meditate to slow their heart rate,
using Wisdom instead of Dexterity for their Stealth check.
When a creature could detect you using multiple different
senses, use your lowest applicable attribute modifier.
Low-Light Vision
A creature with low-light vision can see in dim light as
though it were bright light, so it ignores the concealed
condition due to dim light.
Scent
Scent involves sensing creatures or objects by smell, and is
usually a vague sense. The range is listed in the ability, and
it functions only if the creature or object being detected
emits an aroma. If a creature emits a heavy aroma or is
upwind, the GM can double or even triple the range of
scent abilities used to detect that creature, and the GM can
reduce the range if a creature is downwind.
Tremorsense
Tremorsense allows a creature to feel the vibrations
through a solid surface caused by movement. It is usually
an imprecise sense with a limited range (listed in the ability).
Tremorsense functions only if the detecting creature is on
the same surface as the subject, and only if the subject is
moving along (or burrowing through) the surface.
Detecting Creatures
Three conditions measure the degree to which you can sense
a creature: observed, hidden, and undetected. However, the
concealed and invisible conditions can partially mask a
creature, and the unnoticed condition indicates you have
no idea a creature is around. You can find these conditions
in the Conditions Appendix on pages 442–447.
With the exception of invisible, these conditions are
relative to the viewer—it’s possible for a creature to be
observed to you but hidden from your ally. Most of these
rules apply to objects as well as creatures.
Typically, the GM tracks how well creatures detect each
other, since neither party has perfect information. For
example, you might think a creature is in the last place you
sensed it, but it was able to Sneak away. Or you might think
a creature can’t see you in the dark, but it has darkvision.
You can attempt to avoid detection by using the Stealth
skill (page 244) to Avoid Notice, Hide, or Sneak, or by
using Deception to Create a Diversion (page 237).
Observed
In most circumstances, you can sense creatures without
difficulty and target them normally. Creatures in this state
are observed. Observing requires a precise sense, which
for most creatures means sight. If you can’t observe the
creature, it’s either hidden, undetected, or unnoticed, and
you’ll need to factor in the targeting restrictions. Even if a
creature is observed, it might still be concealed.
Hidden
A creature that’s hidden is only barely perceptible. You
know what space it occupies, but little else. Perhaps the
creature just moved behind cover and successfully used
the Hide action. Your target might be behind a waterfall,
where you can see some movement but can’t determine an
exact location. Maybe you’ve been blinded or the creature
is invisible, but you used the Seek basic action to determine
its general location based on hearing alone. Regardless of
the specifics, you’re off-guard to a hidden creature.
When targeting a hidden creature, before you roll to
determine your effect, you must attempt a DC 11 flat
check. If you fail, you don’t affect the creature, though the
actions you used are still expended—as well as any spell
slots, costs, and other resources. You remain off-guard to
the creature, whether you successfully target it or not.
Undetected
If a creature is undetected, you don’t know what space
it occupies, you’re off-guard to it, and you can’t easily
target it. Using the Seek basic action can help you find an
undetected creature, usually making it hidden from you
instead of undetected. If a creature is undetected, that
doesn’t necessarily mean you’re unaware of its presence—
you might suspect an undetected creature is in the room
with you, even though you’re unable to find its space. The
unnoticed condition covers creatures you’re unaware of.

Targeting an undetected creature is difficult. If you suspect
there’s a creature around, you can pick a square and attempt
an attack. This works like targeting a hidden creature, but
the flat check and attack roll are both rolled in secret by
the GM. The GM won’t tell you why you missed—whether
it was due to failing the flat check, rolling an insufficient
attack roll, or choosing the wrong square. The GM might
allow you to try targeting an undetected creature with some
spells or other abilities in a similar fashion. Undetected
creatures are subject to area effects normally.
For instance, suppose an enemy elf wizard cast invisibility
and then Sneaked away. You suspect that with the elf’s
Speed of 30 feet, they probably moved 15 feet toward an
open door. You move up and attack a space 15 feet from
where the elf started and directly on the path to the door.
The GM secretly rolls an attack roll and flat check, but they
know that you were not quite correct—the elf was actually
in the adjacent space! The GM tells you that you missed, so
you decide to make your next attack on the adjacent space,
just in case. This time, it’s the right space, and the GM’s
secret attack roll and flat check both succeed, so you hit!
Unnoticed
If you have no idea a creature is even present, that
creature is unnoticed by you. A creature that is undetected
might also be unnoticed. This condition usually matters
for abilities that can be used only against targets totally
unaware of your presence.
Concealed
A concealed creature is in mist, within dim light, or amid
something else that obscures sight but isn’t a physical
barrier. When you target a creature that’s concealed from
you, you must attempt a DC 5 flat check before you roll
to determine your effect. If you fail, you don’t affect the
target. The concealed condition doesn’t change which of
the main categories of detection apply. A creature in a light
fog bank is still observed even though it’s concealed.
Invisible
A creature with the invisible condition (by way of an
invisibility spell, for example) is automatically undetected
to any creatures relying on sight as their only precise
sense. Precise senses other than sight ignore the invisible
condition. You can Seek (page 417) to attempt to figure
out an invisible creature’s location, making it only hidden
from you. This lasts until the invisible creature successfully
uses Sneak to become undetected again. If you’re already
observing a creature when it becomes invisible, it starts out
hidden, since you know where it was, though it can then
Sneak to become undetected.
Other effects might partially foil invisibility. For instance,
if you were tracking an invisible creature’s footprints
through the snow, the footprints would make it hidden.
Throwing a net over an invisible creature would make it
observed but concealed for as long as the net is on it.
ENCOUNTER MODE
When every individual action counts, you enter the encounter mode of play. In this mode,
time is divided into rounds, each of which is 6 seconds of time in the game world. Every
round, each participant takes a turn in an established order. During your turn, you can use
actions, and depending on the details of the encounter, you might have the opportunity to
use reactions and free actions on your own turn and on others’ turns.
Structure
An encounter is played out in a series of rounds, during
which the player characters, adversaries, and other
participants in the encounter act in sequence. You roll
initiative to determine this order at the start of the encounter
and then play through rounds until a conclusion is reached
and the encounter ends. The rules in this section assume a
combat encounter—a battle—but the general structure can
apply to any kind of encounter. Other types of encounters,
like social encounters, might use longer rounds or have
other modifications to the basic structure.
Step 1: Roll Initiative
When the GM calls for it, you’ll roll initiative to determine
your place in the initiative order, which is the sequence in
which the encounter’s participants will take their turns.
Rolling initiative marks the start of an encounter. More
often than not, you’ll roll initiative when you enter a battle.
Typically, you’ll roll a Perception check to determine
your initiative—the more aware you are of your
surroundings, the more quickly you can respond.
Sometimes, though, the GM might call on you to roll
some other type of check. For instance, if you were
Avoiding Notice during exploration (page 438), you’d
roll a Stealth check. A social encounter could call for a
Deception or Diplomacy check. In most cases, you can
still use Perception if you prefer.
The GM rolls initiative for anyone other than the player
characters in the encounter. If these include a number of
identical creatures, the GM could roll once for the group
as a whole and have them take their turns within the
group in any order. However, this can make battles less
predictable and more dangerous, so the GM might want
to roll initiative for some or all creatures individually
unless it’s too much of a burden.
Unlike a check, where the result is compared to a DC,
the results of initiative rolls are ranked. This ranking sets
the order in which the encounter’s participants act—the
initiative order. The character with the highest result goes
first. The second highest follows, and so on until whoever
had the lowest result takes their turn last.
If your result is tied with an enemy’s result, the enemy
goes first. If your result is tied with another PC’s, you can
decide between yourselves who goes first when you reach
that place in the initiative order. After that, your places
in the initiative order usually don’t change during the
encounter. (But see the Delay basic action on page 416.)
When every individual action counts, you enter the encounter mode of play. In this mode,
time is divided into rounds, each of which is 6 seconds of time in the game world. Every
round, each participant takes a turn in an established order. During your turn, you can use
actions, and depending on the details of the encounter, you might have the opportunity to
use reactions and free actions on your own turn and on others’ turns.
ENCOUNTER MODE

Step 2: Play a Round
A round begins when the participant with the highest
initiative roll result starts their turn, and it ends when the
one with the lowest initiative ends their turn. The process
of taking a turn is detailed below. Creatures might also
act outside their turns with reactions and free actions.
Step 3: Begin the Next Round
Once everyone in the encounter has taken a turn, the
round is over and the next one begins. Don’t roll initiative
again; the new round proceeds in the same order as the
previous one, repeating the cycle until the encounter ends.
Step 4: End the Encounter
When your foes are defeated, some sort of truce is reached,
or some other event or circumstance ends the combat,
the encounter is over. You and the other participants no
longer follow the initiative order, and a more free-form
style of play resumes, with the game typically moving into
exploration mode. Sometimes, at the end of an encounter,
the GM will award Experience Points to the party or you’ll
find treasure to divvy up.
Turns
When it’s your turn to act, you can use single actions ([one-action]),
short activities ([two-actions] and [three-actions]), reactions ([reaction]), and free
actions ([free-action]). When you’re finished, your turn ends and
the character next in the initiative order begins their turn.
Sometimes it’s important to note when during your turn
something happens, so a turn is divided into three steps.
Step 1: Start Your Turn
Many things happen automatically at the start of your
turn—it’s a common point for tracking the passage of time
for effects that last multiple rounds. At the start of each of
your turns, take these steps in any order you choose:
• If you created an effect lasting for a certain number
of rounds, reduce the number of rounds remaining
by 1. The effect ends if the duration is reduced to 0.
For example, if you cast a spell that lasts 3 rounds
on yourself during your first turn of a fight, it would
affect you during that turn, decrease to 2 rounds of
duration at the start of your second turn, decrease to
1 round of duration at the start of your third turn, and
expire at the start of your fourth turn.
• You can use 1 free action or reaction with a trigger of
“Your turn begins” or something similar.
• If you’re dying, roll a recovery check (page 411).
• Do anything else that is specified to happen at the start
of your turn, such as regaining Hit Points from fast
healing or regeneration.
The last step of starting your turn is always the same.
• Regain your 3 actions and 1 reaction. If you haven’t
spent your reaction from your last turn, you lose it—
you can’t “save” actions or reactions from one turn to
use during the next turn. Some abilities or conditions
(such as quickened, slowed, and stunned) can change
how many actions you regain and whether you regain
your reaction. (Details on gaining and losing actions
are on page 446.)
TRACKING INITIATIVE

The GM keeps track of the initiative order for an
encounter. It’s usually okay for the players to know this
order, since they’ll see who goes when and be aware of
one another’s results. However, the GM might want to
conceal information about adversaries the PCs have yet
to detect or identify.
Once the encounter’s order is set, it’s usually not
necessary to track the original initiative numbers. The
GM can create a simple list, use a series of cards or other
indicators, or use a Pathfinder Combat Pad, which has
magnetic markers to allow for easily rearranging the
order.
Changing the Initiative Order
Any method used to track the initiative order needs to be
flexible because the order can change. A creature can use
the Delay basic action to change its place in the order, in
which case you can erase it from the list or pull its marker
aside until it reenters the initiative order. When a creature
gets knocked out, its initiative order also changes (see
page 410). Using the Ready basic action doesn’t change
a creature’s place in the initiative order, though, because
the designated action becomes a reaction.
Step 2: Act
You can use actions in any order you wish during your
turn, but you have to complete one action or activity
before beginning another; for example, you can’t use
a single action in the middle of performing a 2-action
activity. What actions you can use often depend on your
class features, skills, feats, and items, but there are default
actions anyone can use, described in Basic Actions on page
416. Some effects might prevent you from acting. If you
can’t act, you can’t use any actions, including reactions and
free actions.
If you begin a 2-action or 3-action activity on your turn,
you must be able to complete it on your turn. You can’t,
for example, begin to High Jump using your final action

on one turn and then complete it as your first action on
your next turn.
Once you have spent all 3 of your actions, your turn
ends (as described in Step 3) and the next creature’s turn
begins. You can choose to end your turn early, losing all
remaining actions (but not your reaction).
Step 3: End Your Turn
Once you’ve done all the things you want to do with the
actions you have available, you reach the end of your turn.
Take the following steps in any order you choose. Play then
proceeds to the next creature in the initiative order.
• End any effects that last until the end of your turn. For
example, spells with a sustained duration end at the
end of your turn unless you used the Sustain a Spell
action during your turn to extend them. Some effects
caused by enemies might also last through a certain
number of your turns, and you decrease the remaining
duration by 1 during this step, ending the effect if its
duration is reduced to 0.
• If you have a persistent damage condition, you take
the damage at this point. After you take the damage,
you can attempt the flat check to end the persistent
damage. You then attempt any saving throws for
ongoing afflictions. Many other conditions change at
the end of your turn, such as the frightened condition
decreasing in severity. These take place after you’ve
taken any persistent damage, attempted flat checks
to end the persistent damage, and attempted saves
against any afflictions.
• You can use 1 free action or reaction with a trigger of
“Your turn ends” or something similar.
• Resolve anything else specified to happen at the end of
your turn.
Activities in Encounters
Activities that take longer than a turn can’t normally be
performed during an encounter. Spells with a casting time
of 1 minute or more are a common example, as are several
skill actions. When you commit to an activity during your
turn in an encounter, you commit to spending all of the
actions it requires. If the activity gets interrupted partway
through, you lose all of the actions you would have spent
on that activity. Activities are described on page 414.
Reactions in Encounters
Your reactions let you respond immediately to what’s
happening around you. The GM determines whether you
can use reactions before your first turn begins, depending
on the situation in which the encounter happens. Once your
first turn begins, you gain your actions and reaction. You
gain 1 reaction per round. You can use a reaction on
anyone’s turn (including your own), but only when its
trigger occurs. If you don’t use your reaction, you lose it
at the start of your next turn, though you typically then
gain a reaction at the start of that turn.
Special Battles
Mounted Combat
You can ride some creatures into combat. As noted in the
Mount specialty basic action (page 419), your mount needs
to be willing and at least one size larger than you. Your
mount acts on your initiative. You must use the Command
an Animal action (page 242) to get your mount to spend its
actions. If you don’t, the animal wastes its actions. If you
have the Ride general feat, you succeed automatically when
you Command an Animal that’s your mount.
For example, if you are mounted on a horse and you
make three attacks, your horse would remain stationary
since you didn’t command it. If you instead spent your first
action to Command an Animal and succeeded, you could
get your mount to Stride. You could spend your next action
to attack or to command the horse to attack, but not both.
Mounted Attacks
You and your mount fight as a unit. Consequently, you
share a multiple attack penalty. For example, if you Strike
and then Command an Animal to have your mount Strike,
your mount’s attack takes a –5 multiple attack penalty.
You occupy every square of your mount’s space for the
purpose of making attacks. If you were a Medium creature
on a Large mount, you could attack a creature on one side of
your mount, then attack on the opposite side. On a Medium
or smaller mount, use the normal reach of an attack. On a
Large or Huge mount, you can attack any square adjacent
to the mount if you have 5- or 10-foot reach, or any square
within 10 feet of the mount (including diagonally) if you
have 15-foot reach. Use the adjusted reach for determining
flanking and other rules that depend on reach.
Mounted Defenses
Attackers can target either you or your mount. An area
effect affects both of you as long as you’re both in the area.
You are in an attacker’s reach or range if any square of
your mount is within reach or range. Because your mount
is larger than you and you share its space, you have lesser
cover against attacks targeting you when you’re mounted if
the mount would be in the way (as determined by the GM).
Because you can’t move your body as freely while you’re
riding a mount, you take a –2 circumstance penalty to
Reflex saves while mounted. Additionally, the only move
action you can use is the Mount action to dismount.
Aerial Combat
Many monsters can fly, and PCs can use spells and items to
gain the ability to fly. Flying creatures have to use the Fly
action (page 419) to move through the air. Performing an
especially tricky maneuver might require using Acrobatics
to Maneuver in Flight. Creatures might fall from the sky,
using the falling rules found on page 421. At the GM’s
discretion, some ground-based actions might not work in
the air. For instance, a flying creature couldn’t Leap.
THREE-DIMENSIONAL COMBAT
In aerial and aquatic combat, you might need to track
positioning in three dimensions. For flying creatures, you
might use one of the following methods:
• Find platforms to place flying creatures’ miniatures on.
• Set a die next to a creature with the number indicating
how many squares up in the air it is.
• Make a stack of dice or tokens, 1 per 5 feet of elevation.
• Write the elevation next to the monster on the grid.
In underwater combat, choose a plane to be the
baseline, typically the waterline, the sea floor, or a
stationary object you can measure from.
As with ground-based movement, moving diagonally
up or down in 3-D space requires counting every other
diagonal as 10 feet. Measure flanking in all directions—
creatures above and below an enemy can flank it just as
effectively as they can from opposite sides.
Aquatic Combat
Use these rules for battles in water or underwater:
• You’re off-guard unless you have a swim Speed.
• You gain resistance 5 to acid and fire.
• You take a –2 circumstance penalty to melee slashing
or bludgeoning attacks that pass through water.
• Ranged attacks that deal bludgeoning or slashing
damage automatically miss if the attacker or target is
underwater, and piercing ranged attacks made by an
underwater creature or against an underwater target
have their range increments halved.
• You can’t cast fire spells or use actions with the fire
trait underwater. As normal for how traits work, any
part of the effect that’s unrelated to fire still works. For
example, an attack with a flaming battleaxe could still
deal its physical damage, just not its fire damage.
• At the GM’s discretion, some ground-based actions
might not work underwater or while floating.
Drowning and Suffocating
You can hold your breath for a number of rounds equal to
5 + your Constitution modifier. Reduce your remaining air
by 1 round at the end of each of your turns, or by 2 if you
attacked or cast any spells that turn. You also lose 1 round
worth of air each time you are critically hit or critically fail
a save against a damaging effect. If you speak (including
Casting a Spell) you lose all remaining air.
When you run out of air, you fall unconscious and start
suffocating. You can’t recover from being unconscious and
must attempt a DC 20 Fortitude save at the end of each of
your turns. On a failure, you take 1d10 damage, and on a
critical failure, you die. On each check after the first, the
DC increases by 5 and the damage by 1d10; these increases
are cumulative. Once your access to air is restored, you
stop suffocating and are no longer unconscious (unless
you’re at 0 Hit Points).
EXPLORATION MODE
While encounters use rounds for combat, exploration is more free form. The GM determines
the flow of time, as you could be traveling by horseback across craggy highlands, negotiating
with merchants, or delving in a dungeon in search of danger and treasure. Exploration
lacks the immediate danger of encounter mode, but it offers its own challenges.
Much of exploration mode involves movement and
roleplaying. You might be traveling from one town to
another, chatting with a couple of merchants in an outpost
along the way, or maybe having a terse conversation with
the watchful city guards at your destination. Instead of
measuring your rate of movement in 5-foot squares every
round, you measure it in feet or miles per minute, hour,
or day, using your travel speed. Rather than deciding on
each action every turn, you’ll engage in an exploration
activity, and you’ll typically spend some time every day
resting and making your daily preparations.
Travel Speed
Depending on how the GM tracks movement, you move
in feet or miles based on your character’s Speed with the
relevant movement type. Typical rates are on the table below.
TRAVEL SPEED
Feet Miles Miles
Speed per Minute per Hour per Day
10 feet 100 1 8
15 feet 150 1-1/2 12
20 feet 200 2 16
25 feet 250 2-1/2 20
30 feet 300 3 24
35 feet 350 3-1/2 28
40 feet 400 4 32
50 feet 500 5 40
60 feet 600 6 48
The rates in the table assume traveling over flat and
clear terrain at a determined pace, but one that’s not
exhausting. Moving through difficult terrain halves the
listed movement rate. Greater difficult terrain reduces
the distance traveled to one-third the listed amount. If
the travel requires a skill check to accomplish, such as
mountain climbing or swimming, the GM might call for a
check once per hour using the result and the table above
to determine your progress.
Exploration Activities
While you’re traveling and exploring, tell the GM what
you’d generally like to do along the way. If you do nothing
more than make steady progress toward your goal, you
move at the full travel speeds given in the table.
When you want to do something other than simply travel,
you describe what you are attempting to do. It isn’t necessary
to go into extreme detail, such as “Using my dagger, I nudge
While encounters use rounds for combat, exploration is more free form. The GM determines
the flow of time, as you could be traveling by horseback across craggy highlands, negotiating
with merchants, or delving in a dungeon in search of danger and treasure. Exploration
lacks the immediate danger of encounter mode, but it offers its own challenges.
EXPLORATION MODE

the door so I can check for devious traps.” Instead, “I’m
searching the area for hazards” is sufficient. The GM finds
the best exploration activity to match your description
and describes the effects of that activity. Some exploration
activities limit how fast you can travel and be effective.
These are most common exploration activities.
AVOID NOTICE
EXPLORATION
You attempt a Stealth check to avoid notice while traveling
at half speed. If you’re Avoiding Notice at the start of an
encounter, you usually roll a Stealth check instead of a
Perception check both to determine your initiative and to see
if the enemies notice you (based on their Perception DCs, as
normal for Sneak, regardless of their initiative check results).
DEFEND
EXPLORATION
You move at half your travel speed with your shield raised. If
combat breaks out, you gain the benefits of Raising a Shield
before your first turn begins.
DETECT MAGIC
CONCENTRATE EXPLORATION
You cast detect magic at regular intervals. You move at half
your travel speed or slower. You have no chance of accidentally
overlooking a magic aura at a travel speed up to 300 feet per
minute, but must be traveling no more than 150 feet per minute
to detect magic auras before the party moves into them.
FOLLOW THE EXPERT
AUDITORY CONCENTRATE EXPLORATION VISUAL
Choose an ally attempting a recurring skill check while
exploring, such as climbing, or performing a different
exploration tactic that requires a skill check (like Avoiding
Notice). The ally must be at least an expert in that skill and
must be willing to provide assistance. While Following the
Expert, you match their tactic or attempt similar skill checks.
Thanks to your ally’s assistance, you can add your level as a
proficiency bonus to the associated skill check, even if you’re
untrained. Additionally, you gain a circumstance bonus to your
skill check based on your ally’s proficiency (+2 for expert, +3
for master, and +4 for legendary).
HUSTLE
EXPLORATION MOVE
You strain yourself to move at double your travel speed.
You can Hustle only for a number of minutes equal to your
Constitution modifier × 10 (minimum 10 minutes). If you
are in a group that is Hustling, use the lowest Constitution
modifier among everyone to determine how fast the group
can Hustle together.
INVESTIGATE
CONCENTRATE EXPLORATION
You seek out information about your surroundings while
traveling at half speed. You use Recall Knowledge as a secret
check to discover clues among the various things you can see
and engage with as you journey along. You can use any skill
that has a Recall Knowledge action while Investigating, but
the GM determines whether the skill is relevant to the clues
you could find.
REPEAT A SPELL
CONCENTRATE EXPLORATION
You repeatedly cast the same spell while moving at half speed.
Typically, this spell is a cantrip that you want to have in effect
in the event a combat breaks out, and it must be one you can
cast in 2 actions or fewer. Repeating a spell that requires
making complex decisions, such as figment, can make you
fatigued, as determined by the GM.
SCOUT
CONCENTRATE EXPLORATION
You scout ahead and behind the group to watch danger,
moving at half speed. At the start of the next encounter, every
creature in your party gains a +1 circumstance bonus to their
initiative rolls.
SEARCH
CONCENTRATE EXPLORATION
You Seek meticulously for hidden doors, concealed hazards,
and so on. You can usually make an educated guess as to
which locations are best to check and move at half speed,
but if you want to be thorough and guarantee you checked
everything, you need to travel at a Speed of no more than 300
feet per minute, or 150 feet per minute to ensure you check
everything before you walk into it. You can always move more
slowly while Searching to cover the area more thoroughly,
and the Expeditious Search feat increases these maximum
Speeds. If you come across a secret door, item, or hazard while
Searching, the GM will attempt a free secret check to Seek
to see if you notice the hidden object or hazard. In locations
with many objects to search, you have to stop and spend
significantly longer to search thoroughly.
SUSTAIN AN EFFECT
CONCENTRATE EXPLORATION
You Sustain one effect with a sustained duration while
moving at half speed. Most such effects can be sustained for
10 minutes, though some specify they can be sustained for a
different duration. Sustaining an effect that requires making
complex decisions, such as spectral weapon, can make you
fatigued, as determined by the GM.
SKILL EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
Chapter 4: Skills includes additional exploration activities.
Borrow an Arcane Spell: You use Arcana to prepare a
spell from someone else’s spellbook (page 234).
Coerce: You use Intimidation to threaten a creature so it
does what you want (page 240).
Cover Tracks: You use Survival to obscure your passing
(page 246).
Decipher Writing: You use a suitable skill to understand
archaic, esoteric, or obscure texts (page 228).
Gather Information: You use Diplomacy to canvass the
area to learn about a specific individual or topic (page 239).
Identify Alchemy: You use Craft and alchemist’s tools to
identify an alchemical item (page 237).
Identify Magic: Using a variety of skills, you can learn
about a magic item, location, or ongoing effect (page 230).
Impersonate: You use Deception and usually a disguise
kit to create a disguise (page 238).
Learn a Spell: You use the skill corresponding to the
spell’s tradition to gain access to a new spell (page 230).
Make an Impression: You use Diplomacy to make a good
impression on someone (page 239).
Repair: With a repair kit and the Crafting skill, you fix a
damaged item (page 236).
Sense Direction: You use Survival to get a sense of
where you are or determine cardinal directions (page 246).
Squeeze: Using Acrobatics, you squeeze though very
tight spaces (page 233).
Track: You use Survival to follow tracks (page 246).
Treat Wounds: You use Medicine to treat a living
creature’s wounds (page 242).
Rest and Daily
Preparations
You’re at your best when you take time to rest and prepare.
Once every 24 hours, you can take a period of rest (typically
8 hours), during which you heal naturally, regaining Hit
Points equal to your Constitution modifier (minimum 1)
times your level, and you might recover from or improve
certain conditions. Sleeping in armor results in poor rest that
leaves you fatigued. If you go more than 16 hours without
resting, you become fatigued (you can’t recover from this
fatigue until you rest at least 8 continuous hours).
After you rest, you make your daily preparations,
which takes around 1 hour. You can prepare only if you’ve
rested, and only once per day. During preparations:
• Spellcasters regain spell slots, and prepared spellcasters
choose spells to have available that day.
• Focus Points, abilities that refresh during preparations,
and abilities that can be used only a certain number of
times per day, including magic item uses, are reset.
• You don armor and equip weapons and other gear.
• You invest up to 10 worn magic items to gain their
benefits for the day (as explained in GM Core).
DOWNTIME MODE
Downtime mode is played day-by-day rather than minute-by-minute or scene-by-scene.
Usually, this mode of play occurs when you are in the safety of a settlement, maybe recovering
from your adventures or studying an artifact you found.
Downtime gives you time to rest fully, engage in crafting
or a professional endeavor, learn new spells, retrain feats,
or just have fun. You can sell items acquired during your
adventures, buy new goods, and perform other activities
as determined by your feats, your skills, and the settlement
where you are spending the downtime.
Earning Income
The Earn Income skill action (page 228) allows you to make
money using a wide variety of skills. You can get creative
with the skills you attempt to use, working with the GM
on the details. Some skills might be much harder to earn
money with than others. Crafting, Lore, and Performance
are the most reliable. Jobs in a fantasy world tend not to be
particularly stable, so you might need to look for new tasks
on a fairly regular basis.
The GM determines the levels of jobs you can find, as
noted in the Earn Income activity. It’s often in your best
interest to determine what types of jobs are available for a
small variety of skills, so you can take on the most lucrative
or interesting option.
Long-Term Rest
You can spend an entire day and night resting during
downtime to recover Hit Points equal to your Constitution
modifier (minimum 1) multiplied by double your level.
Retraining
Retraining offers a way to alter your character choices,
which is helpful when you want to take your character
in a new direction or change decisions that didn’t meet
your expectations. You can retrain feats, skills, and some
selectable class features. You can’t retrain your ancestry,
heritage, background, class, or attribute modifiers. You
can’t perform other downtime activities while retraining.
Retraining usually requires you to spend time learning
from a teacher, whether that entails physical training,
studying at a library, or falling into shared magical trances.
Your GM determines whether you can get proper training
or whether something can be retrained at all. In some cases,
you’ll have to pay your instructor. Some abilities can be
difficult or impossible to retrain (for instance, witch can
retrain their patron only in extraordinary circumstances).
When retraining, you generally can’t make choices you
couldn’t make when you selected the original option. For
instance, you can’t replace a skill feat you chose at 2nd level
for a 4th-level one, or for one that requires prerequisites
you didn’t meet at the time you took the original feat. If
you don’t remember whether you met the prerequisites at
the time, ask your GM to make the call. If you cease to meet
the prerequisites for an ability due to retraining, you can’t
use that ability. You might need to retrain several abilities
in sequence in order to get all the abilities you want.
Feats
You can spend a week of downtime retraining to swap out
one of your feats. Remove the old feat and replace it with
another of the same type. For example, you could swap a
skill feat for another skill feat, but not for a wizard feat.
Skills
You can spend a week of downtime retraining to swap
out one of your skill increases. Reduce your proficiency
rank in the skill losing its increase by one step and increase
your proficiency rank in another skill by one step. The
new proficiency rank has to be equal to or lower than the
proficiency rank you traded away. For instance, if your
bard is a master in Performance and Stealth, and an expert
in Occultism, you could reduce the character’s proficiency
in Stealth to expert and become a master in Occultism,
but you couldn’t reassign that skill increase to become
legendary in Performance. Keep track of your level when
you reassign skill increases; the level at which your skill
proficiencies changed can influence your ability to retrain
feats with skill prerequisites.
You can also spend a week to retrain an initial trained
skill you selected during character creation.
Class Features
You can change a class feature that required a choice,
making a different choice instead. Some, like changing a
spell in your spell repertoire, take a week. The GM will tell
you how long it takes to retrain larger choices like a druid
order or a wizard school—it is always at least a month.
Shopping and Crafting
If you’re at a location with shops that buy or sell magic
items, you can buy, sell, or trade. Ask the GM what types of
shopping options are available to you—it can vary greatly
depending where you’re spending your downtime!
Because of the complexities of finding shops that are
looking for items you want to sell or that offer ones you
want to buy, dedicated shopping takes 1 day of downtime.
It might take longer if you’re selling a large number of
goods, expensive items that require a wealthy buyer, or
items that aren’t in high demand.
The Price of an item indicates the full cost to buy it. You
can sell an item for half its Price. The GM might adjust
these once in a while due to supply and demand or the
particular merchants you’re dealing with.
SKILL DOWNTIME ACTIVITIES
Chapter 4: Skills includes several downtime activities,
which are summarized here.
Craft: Using the Crafting skill, you can create items
from raw materials (page 236).
Create Forgery: You forge a document (page 244).
Earn Income: You earn money, typically using Crafting,
Lore, or Performance (page 228).
Subsist: You find food and shelter in the wilderness or
within a settlement (page 232).
Treat Disease: You spend time caring for a diseased
creature in the hope of curing that creature (page 242).

COST OF LIVING

You might need to pay your cost of living for days spent
in downtime (the prices can be found on page 295). To
avoid paying the cost, you can Subsist (see page 232),
using Society in a settlement or Survival in the wild.
Experienced adventurers often have friends or patrons
who take care of their living expenses. They might even
have so much treasure that their cost of living—even one
of the more expensive options—becomes a pittance.
Item Crafting
You can spend downtime to use the Craft skill activity (page
236), making new items out of raw materials. Crafting
can be an excellent way to refine the gear the party uses,
including upgrading items and preparing ones you’re likely
to need on an upcoming quest.
Other Activities
Work with your GM if there are other ways you want to
spend downtime. You might acquire property, manage a
business, become part of a guild, curry favor in a large city,
take command of an army, take on an apprentice, start a
family, or minister to a flock of the faithful. Though there
are efficient options for making money or adjusting your
character, it’s often better to seek out fun and interesting
activities that can open up new opportunities for character
building, adventures, or relationships.
Goals
You can help guide the course of the campaign by setting
long-term goals that take multiple periods of downtime to
complete. Talk them through with the GM and the rest of
the group. Consider alliances you want to develop further
or changes you want to see in the game world.
CONDITIONS APPENDIX
While adventuring, characters (and sometimes their belongings) are affected by abilities and
effects that apply conditions. For example, a spell or magic item might turn you invisible
or cause you to be gripped by fear. Conditions change your state of being in some way, and
they represent everything from the attitude other creatures have toward you and how they
interact with you to what happens when a creature drains your blood or life essence.
Conditions are persistent. Whenever you’re affected by
a condition, its effects last until the condition’s stated
duration ends, the condition is removed, or terms
dictated in the condition itself cause it to end.
Condition Values
Some conditions have a number after the condition,
called a condition value. This value conveys the severity
of a condition, and such conditions often give you a
bonus or penalty equal to their value. These values can
often be reduced by skills, spells, or simply waiting. If a
condition value is ever reduced to 0, the condition ends.
Overriding Conditions
Some conditions override others. This is always specified
in the entry for the overriding condition. When this
happens, all effects of the overridden condition are
suppressed until the overriding condition ends. The
overridden condition’s duration continues to elapse, and
it might run out while suppressed.
List of Conditions
Blinded
You can’t see. All normal terrain is difficult terrain to you.
You can’t detect anything using vision. You automatically
critically fail Perception checks that require you to be able
to see, and if vision is your only precise sense, you take a
–4 status penalty to Perception checks. You are immune
to visual effects. Blinded overrides dazzled.
Broken
Broken is a condition that affects only objects. An object is
broken when damage has reduced its Hit Points to equal
or less than its Broken Threshold. A broken object can’t be
used for its normal function, nor does it grant bonuses—
with the exception of armor. Broken armor still grants its
item bonus to AC, but it also imparts a status penalty to AC
depending on its category: –1 for broken light armor, –2
for broken medium armor, or –3 for broken heavy armor.
A broken item still imposes penalties and limitations
normally incurred by carrying, holding, or wearing it. For
example, broken armor would still impose its Dexterity
modifier cap, check penalty, and so forth. If an effect
makes an item broken automatically and the item has
more HP than its Broken Threshold, that effect also
reduces the item’s current HP to the Broken Threshold.
Clumsy
Your movements become clumsy and inexact. Clumsy
always includes a value. You take a status penalty equal
to the condition value to Dexterity-based checks and
DCs, including AC, Reflex saves, ranged attack rolls,
and skill checks using Acrobatics, Stealth, and Thievery.
Concealed
You are difficult for one or more creatures to see due
to thick fog or some other obscuring feature. You can
be concealed to some creatures but not others. While
concealed, you can still be observed, but you’re tougher
to target. A creature that you’re concealed from must
succeed at a DC 5 flat check when targeting you with an
attack, spell, or other effect. If the check fails, you aren’t
affected. Area effects aren’t subject to this flat check.
Confused
You don’t have your wits about you, and you attack
wildly. You are off-guard, you don’t treat anyone as your
ally (though they might still treat you as theirs), and you
can’t Delay, Ready, or use reactions.
You use all your actions to Strike or cast offensive
cantrips, though the GM can have you use other actions
to facilitate attack, such as draw a weapon, move
so target is in reach, and so forth. Your targets are
determined randomly by the GM. If you have no other
viable targets, you target yourself, automatically hitting
but not scoring a critical hit. If it’s impossible for you to
attack or cast spells, you babble incoherently, wasting
your actions.
Each time you take damage from an attack or spell,
you can attempt a DC 11 flat check to recover from your
confusion and end the condition.
Controlled
You have been commanded, magically dominated, or
otherwise had your will subverted. The controller dictates
how you act and can make you use any of your actions,
including attacks, reactions, or even Delay. The controller
usually doesn’t have to spend their own actions when
controlling you.
Dazzled
Your eyes are overstimulated or your vision is swimming.
If vision is your only precise sense, all creatures and
objects are concealed from you.
Deafened
You can’t hear. You automatically critically fail
Perception checks that require you to be able to hear.
You take a –2 status penalty to Perception checks for
initiative and checks that involve sound but also rely
on other senses. If you perform an action that has the
auditory trait, you must succeed at a DC 5 flat check
or the action is lost; attempt the check after spending
the action but before any effects are applied. You are
immune to auditory effects while deafened.
Doomed
Your soul has been gripped by a powerful force that
calls you closer to death. Doomed always includes a
value. The dying value at which you die is reduced by
your doomed value. If your maximum dying value is
reduced to 0, you instantly die. When you die, you’re
no longer doomed.
Your doomed value decreases by 1 each time you get
a full night’s rest.
Drained
Your health and vitality have been depleted as you’ve
lost blood, life force, or some other essence. Drained
always includes a value. You take a status penalty equal
to your drained value on Constitution-based checks,
such as Fortitude saves. You also lose a number of Hit
Points equal to your level (minimum 1) times the drained
value, and your maximum Hit Points are reduced by the
same amount. For example, if you become drained 3 and
you’re a 3rd-level character, you lose 9 Hit Points and
reduce your maximum Hit Points by 9. Losing these Hit
Points doesn’t count as taking damage.
Each time you get a full night’s rest, your drained
value decreases by 1. This increases your maximum
Hit Points, but you don’t immediately recover the lost
Hit Points.
Dying
You are bleeding out or otherwise at death’s door.
While you have this condition, you are unconscious.
Dying always includes a value, and if it ever reaches
dying 4, you die. When you’re dying, you must attempt
a recovery check (page 411) at the start of your turn
each round to determine whether you get better or
worse. Your dying condition increases by 1 if you take
damage while dying, or by 2 if you take damage from
an enemy’s critical hit or a critical failure on your save.
If you lose the dying condition by succeeding at a
recovery check and are still at 0 Hit Points, you remain
unconscious, but you can wake up as described in that
condition. You lose the dying condition automatically
and wake up if you ever have 1 Hit Point or more.
Any time you lose the dying condition, you gain the
wounded 1 condition, or increase your wounded
condition value by 1 if you already have that condition.
GROUPS OF CONDITIONS

Some conditions exist relative to one another or share a
similar theme. It can be useful to look at these conditions
together to understand how they interact.
Detection: Observed, hidden, undetected, unnoticed
Senses: Blinded, concealed, dazzled, deafened, invisible
Death and Dying: Doomed, dying, unconscious, wounded
Attitudes: Hostile, unfriendly, indifferent, friendly, helpful
Lowered Abilities: Clumsy, drained, enfeebled, stupefied
DEATH AND DYING RULES

The doomed, dying, unconscious, and wounded conditions
all relate to the process of coming closer to death. The
full rules are on pages 410–411. The most significant
information not contained in the conditions themselves is
this: When you’re reduced to 0 Hit Points, you’re knocked
out with the following effects:
• You immediately move your initiative position to
directly before the creature or effect that reduced you
to 0 Hit Points.
• You gain the dying 1 condition. If the effect that
knocked you out was a critical success from the
attacker or the result of your critical failure, you gain
the dying 2 condition instead. If you have the wounded
condition, increase these values by your wounded
value. If the damage came from a nonlethal attack
or effect, you don’t gain the dying condition—you are
instead unconscious with 0 Hit Points.
Encumbered
You are carrying more weight than you can manage.
While you’re encumbered, you’re clumsy 1 and take a
10-foot penalty to all your Speeds. As with all penalties
to your Speed, this can’t reduce your Speed below 5 feet.
Enfeebled
You’re physically weakened. Enfeebled always includes
a value. When you are enfeebled, you take a status
penalty equal to the condition value to Strength-based
rolls and DCs, including Strength-based melee attack
rolls, Strength-based damage rolls, and Athletics checks.
Fascinated
You’re compelled to focus your attention on something,
distracting you from whatever else is going on around
you. You take a –2 status penalty to Perception and skill
checks, and you can’t use concentrate actions unless
they (or their intended consequences) are related to the
subject of your fascination, as determined by the GM.
For instance, you might be able to Seek and Recall
Knowledge about the subject, but you likely couldn’t
cast a spell targeting a different creature. This condition
ends if a creature uses hostile actions against you or any
of your allies.
Fatigued
You’re tired and can’t summon much energy. You take a
–1 status penalty to AC and saving throws. You can’t use
exploration activities performed while traveling, such as
those on pages 438–439.
You recover from fatigue after a full night’s rest.
Fleeing
You’re forced to run away due to fear or some other
compulsion. On your turn, you must spend each of your
actions trying to escape the source of the fleeing condition
as expediently as possible (such as by using move actions
to flee, or opening doors barring your escape). The
source is usually the effect or creature that gave you the
condition, though some effects might define something
else as the source. You can’t Delay or Ready while fleeing.
Friendly
This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward a
particular character, and only supernatural effects (like a
spell) can impose this condition on a PC. A creature that
is friendly to a character likes that character. It is likely
to agree to Requests from that character as long as they
are simple, safe, and don’t cost too much to fulfill. If
the character (or one of their allies) uses hostile actions
against the creature, the creature gains a worse attitude
condition depending on the severity of the hostile action,
as determined by the GM.
Frightened
You’re gripped by fear and struggle to control your
nerves. The frightened condition always includes a
value. You take a status penalty equal to this value to all
your checks and DCs. Unless specified otherwise, at the
end of each of your turns, the value of your frightened
condition decreases by 1.
Grabbed
You’re held in place by another creature, giving you the
off-guard and immobilized conditions. If you attempt a
manipulate action while grabbed, you must succeed at a
DC 5 flat check or it is lost; roll the check after spending
the action, but before any effects are applied.
Helpful
This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward a
particular character, and only supernatural effects (like
a spell) can impose this condition on a PC. A creature
that is helpful to a character wishes to actively aid that
character. It will accept reasonable Requests from that
character, as long as such requests aren’t at the expense
of the helpful creature’s goals or quality of life. If the
character (or one of their allies) uses a hostile action
against the creature, the creature gains a worse attitude
condition depending on the severity of the hostile action,
as determined by the GM.

Hidden
While you’re hidden from a creature, that creature knows
the space you’re in but can’t tell precisely where you are.
You typically become hidden by using Stealth to Hide.
When Seeking a creature using only imprecise senses, it
remains hidden, rather than observed. A creature you’re
hidden from is off-guard to you, and it must succeed at
a DC 11 flat check when targeting you with an attack,
spell, or other effect or it fails to affect you. Area effects
aren’t subject to this flat check.
A creature might be able to use the Seek action to try
to observe you, as described on page 417.
Hostile
This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward a
particular character, and only supernatural effects (like a
spell) can impose on a PC. A creature hostile to a character
actively seeks to harm that character. It doesn’t necessarily
attack, but it won’t accept Requests from the character.
Immobilized
You are incapable of movement. You can’t use any
actions that have the move trait. If you’re immobilized
by something holding you in place and an external
force would move you out of your space, the force must
succeed at a check against either the DC of the effect
holding you in place or the relevant defense (usually
Fortitude DC) of the monster holding you in place.
Indifferent
This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward a
particular character, and only supernatural effects (like a
spell) can impose this condition on a PC. A creature that is
indifferent to a character doesn’t really care one way or the
other about that character. Assume a creature’s attitude to
a given character is indifferent unless specified otherwise.
Invisible
You can’t be seen. You’re undetected to everyone. Creatures
can Seek to detect you; if a creature succeeds at its Perception
check against your Stealth DC, you become hidden to that
creature until you Sneak to become undetected again. If
you become invisible while someone can already see you,
you start out hidden to them (instead of undetected) until
you successfully Sneak. You can’t become observed while
invisible except via special abilities or magic.
Observed
Anything in plain view is observed by you. If a creature
takes measures to avoid detection, such as by using Stealth
to Hide, it can become hidden or undetected instead of
observed. If you have another precise sense besides sight,
you might be able to observe a creature or object using
that sense instead. You can observe a creature with only
your precise senses. When Seeking a creature using only
imprecise senses, it remains hidden, rather than observed.
PERSISTENT DAMAGE RULES
The additional rules presented below apply to persistent damage in certain cases.
Persistent damage runs its course and automatically ends after a certain amount of time as fire burns out, blood clots, and
the like. The GM determines when this occurs, but it usually takes 1 minute.
Assisted Recovery

You can take steps to help yourself recover from persistent
damage, or an ally can help you, allowing you to attempt
an additional flat check before the end of your turn. This
is usually an activity requiring 2 actions, and it must be
something that would reasonably improve your chances
(as determined by the GM). For example, you might try to
smother a flame or wash off acid. This allows you to attempt
an extra flat check immediately, but only once per round.
The GM decides how your help works, using the following
examples as guidelines when there’s not a specific action
that applies.
• The action to help might require a skill check or another
roll to determine its effectiveness.
• Reduce the DC of the flat check to 10 for a particularly
appropriate type of help, such as dousing you in water to
put out flames.
• Automatically end the condition due to the type of help,
such as healing that restores you to your maximum HP to
end persistent bleed damage, or submerging yourself in a
lake to end persistent fire damage.
• Alter the number of actions required to help you if
the means the helper uses are especially efficient or
remarkably inefficient.
Immunities, Resistances, and Weaknesses
Immunities, resistances, and weaknesses all apply to persistent
damage. If an effect deals initial damage in addition to persistent
damage, apply immunities, resistances, and weaknesses
separately to the initial damage and to the persistent damage.
Usually, if an effect negates the initial damage, it also negates
the persistent damage, such as with a slashing weapon that
also deals persistent bleed damage because it cut you. The GM
might rule otherwise in some situations.
Multiple Persistent Damage Conditions
You can be simultaneously affected by multiple persistent
damage conditions so long as they have different damage
types. If you would gain more than one persistent damage
condition with the same damage type, the higher amount
of damage overrides the lower amount. If it’s unclear which
damage would be higher, such as if you’re already taking 2
persistent fire damage and then begin taking 1d4 persistent
fire damage, the GM decides which source of damage would
better fit the scene. The damage you take from persistent
damage occurs all at once, so if something triggers when
you take damage, it triggers only once; for example, if you’re
dying with several types of persistent damage, the persistent
damage increases your dying condition only once.
Off-guard
You’re distracted or otherwise unable to focus your full
attention on defense. You take a –2 circumstance penalty
to AC. Some effects give you the off-guard condition only
to certain creatures or against certain attacks. Others—
especially conditions—can make you off-guard against
everything. If a rule doesn’t specify that the condition
applies only to certain circumstances, it applies to all of
them, such as “The target is off-guard.”
Paralyzed
You’re frozen in place. You have the off-guard condition
and can’t act except to Recall Knowledge and use actions
that require only your mind (as determined by the GM).
Your senses still function, but only in the areas you can
perceive without moving, so you can’t Seek.
Persistent Damage
You are taking damage from an ongoing effect, such as
from being lit on fire. This appears as “X persistent [type]
damage,” where “X” is the amount of damage dealt and
“[type]” is the damage type. Like normal damage, it can
be doubled or halved based on the results of an attack
roll or saving throw. Instead of taking persistent damage

immediately, you take it at the end of each of your turns
as long as you have the condition, rolling any damage
dice anew each time. After you take persistent damage,
roll a DC 15 flat check to see if you recover from the
persistent damage. If you succeed, the condition ends.
Petrified
You have been turned to stone. You can’t act, nor can
you sense anything. You become an object with a Bulk
double your normal Bulk (typically 12 for a petrified
Medium creature or 6 for a petrified Small creature), AC
9, Hardness 8, and the same current Hit Points you had
when alive. You don’t have a Broken Threshold. When the
petrified condition ends, you have the same number of Hit
Points you had as a statue. If the statue is destroyed, you
immediately die. While petrified, your mind and body are
in stasis, so you don’t age or notice the passing of time.
Prone
You’re lying on the ground. You are off-guard and take
a –2 circumstance penalty to attack rolls. The only
move actions you can use while you’re prone are Crawl
and Stand. Standing up ends the prone condition. You
can Take Cover while prone to hunker down and gain
greater cover against ranged attacks, even if you don’t
have an object to get behind, which grants you a +4
circumstance bonus to AC against ranged attacks (but
you remain off-guard).
If you would be knocked prone while you’re Climbing
or Flying, you fall (see page 421 for the rules on falling).
You can’t be knocked prone when Swimming.
GAINING AND LOSING ACTIONS
Quickened, slowed, and stunned are the primary ways
you can gain or lose actions on a turn. The rules for how
this works appear on page 415. In brief, these conditions
alter how many actions you regain at the start of your
turn; thus, gaining the condition in the middle of your
turn doesn’t adjust your number of actions on that
turn. If you have conflicting conditions that affect your
number of actions, you choose which actions you lose.
For instance, the action gained from haste lets you only
Stride or Strike, so if you need to lose one action because
you’re also slowed, you might decide to lose the action
from haste, letting you keep your other actions that can
be used more flexibly.
Some conditions prevent you from taking a certain
subset of actions, typically reactions. Other conditions
simply say you can’t act. When you can’t act, you’re
unable to take any actions at all. Unlike slowed or
stunned, these don’t change the number of actions you
regain; they just prevent you from using them. That
means if you are somehow cured of paralysis on your
turn, you can act immediately.
Quickened
You’re able to act more quickly. You gain 1 additional
action at the start of your turn each round. Many effects
that make you quickened require you use this extra action
only in certain ways. If you become quickened from
multiple sources, you can use the extra action you’ve
been granted for any single action allowed by any of the
effects that made you quickened. Because quickened has
its effect at the start of your turn, you don’t immediately
gain actions if you become quickened during your turn.
Restrained
You’re tied up and can barely move, or a creature has
you pinned. You have the off-guard and immobilized
conditions, and you can’t use any attack or manipulate
actions except to attempt to Escape or Force Open your
bonds. Restrained overrides grabbed.
Sickened
You feel ill. Sickened always includes a value. You take
a status penalty equal to this value on all your checks
and DCs. You can’t willingly ingest anything—including
elixirs and potions—while sickened.

You can spend a single action retching in an attempt to
recover, which lets you immediately attempt a Fortitude
save against the DC of the effect that made you sickened.
On a success, you reduce your sickened value by 1 (or by
2 on a critical success).
Slowed
You have fewer actions. Slowed always includes a value.
When you regain your actions, reduce the number of
actions regained by your slowed value. Because you regain
actions at the start of your turn, you don’t immediately
lose actions if you become slowed during your turn.
Stunned
You’ve become senseless. You can’t act. Stunned usually
includes a value, which indicates how many total actions
you lose, possibly over multiple turns, from being stunned.
Each time you regain actions, reduce the number you regain
by your stunned value, then reduce your stunned value by
the number of actions you lost. For example, if you were
stunned 4, you would lose all 3 of your actions on your
turn, reducing you to stunned 1; on your next turn, you
would lose 1 more action, and then be able to use your
remaining 2 actions normally. Stunned might also have a
duration instead, such as “stunned for 1 minute,” causing
you to lose all your actions for the duration.
Stunned overrides slowed. If the duration of your
stunned condition ends while you are slowed, you count
the actions lost to the stunned condition toward those
lost to being slowed. So, if you were stunned 1 and
slowed 2 at the beginning of your turn, you would lose
1 action from stunned, and then lose only 1 additional
action by being slowed, so you would still have 1 action
remaining to use that turn.
Stupefied
Your thoughts and instincts are clouded. Stupefied always
includes a value. You take a status penalty equal to this
value on Intelligence-, Wisdom-, and Charisma-based
checks and DCs, including Will saving throws, spell
attack modifiers, spell DCs, and skill checks that use these
attribute modifiers. Any time you attempt to Cast a Spell
while stupefied, the spell is disrupted unless you succeed
at a flat check with a DC equal to 5 + your stupefied value.
Unconscious
You’re sleeping or have been knocked out. You can’t act.
You take a –4 status penalty to AC, Perception, and Reflex
saves, and you have the blinded and off-guard conditions.
When you gain this condition, you fall prone and drop
items you’re holding unless the effect states otherwise or
the GM determines you’re positioned so you wouldn’t.
If you’re unconscious because you’re dying, you can’t
wake up while you have 0 Hit Points. If you are restored to
1 Hit Point or more, you lose the dying and unconscious
conditions and can act normally on your next turn.
If you are unconscious and at 0 Hit Points, but not
dying, you return to 1 Hit Point and awaken after
sufficient time passes. The GM determines how long you
remain unconscious, from a minimum of 10 minutes to
several hours. If you are healed, you lose the unconscious
condition and can act normally on your next turn.
If you’re unconscious and have more than 1 Hit Point
(typically because you are asleep or unconscious due to
an effect), you wake up in one of the following ways.
• You take damage, though if the damage reduces you
to 0 Hit Points, you remain unconscious and gain
the dying condition as normal.
• You receive healing, other than the natural healing
you get from resting.
• Someone shakes you awake with an Interact action.
• Loud noise around you might wake you. At the start
of your turn, you automatically attempt a Perception
check against the noise’s DC (or the lowest DC if
there is more than one noise), waking up if you
succeed. If creatures are attempting to stay quiet
around you, this Perception check uses their Stealth
DCs. Some effects make you sleep so deeply that they
don’t allow you this Perception check.
• If you are simply asleep, the GM decides you wake
up either because you have had a restful night’s
sleep or something disrupted that rest.
Undetected
When you are undetected by a creature, that creature
can’t see you at all, has no idea what space you occupy,
and can’t target you, though you still can be affected by
abilities that target an area. When you’re undetected by
a creature, that creature is off-guard to you.
A creature you’re undetected by can guess which square
you’re in to try targeting you. It must pick a square and
attempt an attack. This works like targeting a hidden
creature (requiring a DC 11 flat check, as described on
page 434), but the flat check and attack roll are rolled in
secret by the GM, who doesn’t reveal whether the attack
missed due to failing the flat check, failing the attack
roll, or choosing the wrong square. They can Seek to try
to find you, as described on page 417.
Unfriendly
This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward a
particular character, and only supernatural effects (like
a spell) can impose this condition on a PC. A creature
that is unfriendly to a character dislikes and distrusts that
character. The unfriendly creature won’t accept Requests
from the character.
Unnoticed
If you’re unnoticed by a creature, that creature has no
idea you’re present. When you’re unnoticed, you’re also
undetected. This matters for abilities that can be used
only against targets totally unaware of your presence.
REDUNDANT CONDITIONS

You can have a given condition only once at a time. If
an effect would impose a condition you already have,
you now have that condition for the longer of the two
durations. The shorter-duration condition effectively
ends, though other conditions caused by the original,
shorter-duration effect might continue.
For example, let’s say you have been hit by a monster
that crushes your arm; your wound causes you to be
enfeebled 2 and off-guard until the end of the monster’s
next turn. Before the end of that creature’s next turn, a
trap poisons you, making you enfeebled 2 for 1 minute.
In this case, the enfeebled 2 that lasts for 1 minute
replaces the enfeebled 2 from the monster, so you
would be enfeebled 2 for the longer duration. You would
remain off-guard, since nothing replaced that condition,
and it still lasts only until the end of the monster’s
next turn.
Any ability that removes a condition removes it
entirely, no matter what its condition value is or how
many times you’ve been affected by it. In the example
above, a spell that removes the enfeebled condition
from you would remove it entirely—the spell wouldn’t
need to remove it twice.
Redundant Conditions with Values
Conditions with different values are considered different
conditions. If you’re affected by a condition with a
value multiple times, you apply only the highest value,
although you might have to track both durations if one
has a lower value but lasts longer. For example, if you
had a slowed 2 condition that lasts 1 round and a slowed
1 condition that lasts for 6 rounds, you’d be slowed 2
for the first round, and then you’d change to slowed
1 for the remaining 5 rounds of the second effect’s
duration. If something reduces the condition value,
it reduces it for all conditions of that name affecting
you. For instance, in this example above, if something
reduced your slowed value by 1, it would reduce the first
condition from the example to slowed 1 and reduce the
second to slowed 0, removing it.
Wounded
You have been seriously injured. If you lose the dying
condition and do not already have the wounded
condition, you become wounded 1. If you already
have the wounded condition when you lose the dying
condition, your wounded condition value increases by 1.
If you gain the dying condition while wounded, increase
your dying condition value by your wounded value.
The wounded condition ends if someone successfully
restores Hit Points to you using Treat Wounds, or if you
are restored to full Hit Points by any means and rest for
10 minutes.