CHAPTER 2:

ANCESTRIES & BACKGROUNDS
Your character’s ancestry determines which people they call their own, whether it’s diverse
and ambitious humans, insular but vivacious elves, traditionalist and family-focused
dwarves, or any of the other folk who call Golarion home. A character’s ancestry and their
experiences prior to their life as an adventurer—represented by a background—might be
key parts of their identity, shape how they see the world, and help them find their place in it.
A character has one ancestry and one background, both
of which you select during character creation. You’ll also
select a number of languages for your character. Once
chosen, your ancestry and background can’t be changed.
This chapter is divided into four parts:
• Ancestries express the culture your character hails from.
Within ancestries are heritages—subgroups that have
unique characteristics. An ancestry provides attribute
boosts (and perhaps attribute flaws), Hit Points,
ancestry feats, and sometimes additional abilities.
• Versatile heritages, starting on page 74, are
heritage options available to all ancestries for extra
customization, such as a character who has a mixed
ancestry or one with a more unique or unusual origin.
• Backgrounds, starting on page 84, describe training
or environments your character experienced before
becoming an adventurer. Your character’s background
provides attribute boosts, skill training, and a skill feat.
• Languages, starting on page 89, let your character
communicate with the wonderful and weird people
and creatures of the world.
Ancestry Entries
Each entry includes details about the ancestry and
presents the rules elements described below.
Hit Points
This tells you how many Hit Points your character gains
from their ancestry at 1st level. You’ll add the Hit Points
from your character’s class (including their Constitution
modifier) to this number. For more on calculating Hit
Points, see Step 7: Record Class Details, on page 24.
Size
This tells you the physical size of members of the ancestry.
Medium corresponds roughly to the height and weight
range of a human adult, and Small is roughly half that.
Speed
This entry lists how far a member of the ancestry can move
each time they spend an action (such as Stride) to do so.
Attribute Boosts & Flaws
When creating a character of this ancestry, you apply
attribute boosts to increases some attribute modifiers,

and possibly attribute flaws to decrease others
(depending on the ancestry). For more about attribute
boosts and flaws, see page 19.
Alternate Ancestry Boosts: Because of the wide variety
of people within any ancestry, you can always choose to
take two free boosts to represent your character, even if
the ancestry normally has three boosts and a flaw.
Languages
This tells you the languages that members of the ancestry
speak at 1st level. If your Intelligence modifier is +1 or
higher, you can select more languages from a list given
here. More about languages can be found on page 89.
Traits
These descriptors have no mechanical benefit, but they’re
important for determining how certain spells, effects, and
other aspects of the game interact with your character.
Special Abilities
Any other entries in the sidebar represent abilities, senses,
and other qualities all members of the ancestry manifest.
These are omitted for ancestries with no special rules.
Heritages
You select a heritage at 1st level to reflect abilities passed
down to you from your ancestors or common among
those of your ancestry in the environment where you
were born or grew up. You have only one heritage and
can’t change it later. A heritage is not the same as a culture
or ethnicity, though some cultures or ethnicities might
have more or fewer members from a particular heritage.
Ancestry Feats
This section presents ancestry feats, which allow you to
customize your character. You gain your first ancestry
feat at 1st level, and you gain another at 5th level, 9th
level, 13th level, and 17th level, as indicated in the class
advancement table in the descriptions of each class.
Ancestry feats are organized by level. As a starting
character, you can choose from only 1st-level ancestry
feats, but later choices can be made from any feat of
your level or lower. These feats also sometimes list
prerequisites—requirements that your character must
fulfill to select that feat.
DWARF
Dwarves have a well-earned reputation as a stoic and
stern people, but they also have an unbridled zeal and
deeply value artisanship. To a stranger, they can seem
untrusting and clannish, but to their friends and family,
they are warm and caring. While trust from a dwarf is
hard-won, once gained it is as strong as iron.
If you want to play a character who is as hard as nails, a
stubborn and unrelenting adventurer, with a mix of rugged
toughness and deep wisdom, you should play a dwarf.
You might...
• Strive to uphold your personal honor and refuse to
back down
• Appreciate quality craftsmanship in all forms and
insist upon it for all your gear.

Others probably...
• See you as stubborn, though whether this is an asset
or a detriment changes from moment to moment.
• Recognize the deep connection you have with your
family, heritage, and friends.
Physical Description
Dwarves are short and stocky, standing about a foot
shorter than most humans. They have wide, compact
bodies and burly frames. Dwarves of all genders pride
themselves on the length of their hair and beards, which
they often braid into intricate patterns, some of which
represent specific clans. A long beard is a sign of maturity
and honor among many dwarf clans.
Dwarves typically reach physical adulthood around the
age of 25, though their traditionalist culture places more
value on completing coming-of-age ceremonies unique to
each clan than reaching a certain age. A typical dwarf can
live to around 350 years old.
Society
Though the ancient dwarven empire fell long ago,
overwhelmed by orc and goblinoid enemies, dwarves
today retain many of the qualities that once propelled
them to greatness: fierceness, gumption, and stubbornness
in their endeavors. Dwarves live within mountain
Sky Citadels dotted over the surface, which can create
vast cultural divides between dwarf clans. Yet nearly
all dwarven peoples share a passion for stonework,
metalwork, and family.
Few dwarves are seen without their clan dagger
strapped to their belt. This dagger is forged just
before a dwarf’s birth and is distinctive to their clan.
Dwarves honor their children with names of ancestors
or dwarven heroes. When introducing themselves,
dwarves tend to list their family and clan, plus any
number of other familial connections and honorifics.
Sample Names: Agna, Bodill, Edrukk, Grunyar, Ingra,
Kotri, Morgrym, Rogar, Torra, Yangrit
Beliefs
Dwarves tend to value honor and closely follow the traditions
of their clans and kingdoms. They have a strong sense of
friendship and justice, though they are often very particular
about who they consider a friend. They work hard and play
harder—especially when strong ale is involved. Torag, god
of dwarvenkind, is dwarves’ primary deity, though worship
of Torag’s family members is also common.
Popular Edicts create art with utility, guard your community
against those who would harm it, keep your clan dagger close
Popular Anathema leave an activity or promise uncompleted,
forsake your family
Dwarf Heritages
Dwarves take great pride in the resilience of their bloodlines. Choose one of the
following dwarven heritages at 1st level.
Ancient-Blooded Dwarf
Dwarven heroes of old could shrug off their enemies’ magic, and some of that
resistance manifests in you. You gain the Call on Ancient Blood reaction.
Call on Ancient Blood [reaction] Trigger You attempt a saving throw against a magical effect,
but you haven’t rolled yet; Effect Your ancestors’ innate resistance to magic surges
before slowly ebbing down. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws on
the triggering save and other saves against magical effects until the end of this turn.
Death Warden Dwarf
Your ancestors were tomb guardians, and their power to ward off death passed
on to you. If you roll a success on a saving throw against an effect that has the
void trait or was created by an undead creature, you get a critical success instead.
Forge Dwarf
You have a remarkable adaptation to hot environments. This grants you fire
resistance equal to half your level (minimum 1), and you treat environmental
heat effects as if they were one step less extreme (incredible heat becomes
extreme, extreme heat becomes severe, and so on).
Rock Dwarf
Your ancestors lived and worked among the ancient stones of the mountains or the
depths of the earth. This makes you solid as a rock when you plant your feet. You
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your Fortitude or Reflex DC against attempts to
Reposition, Shove, or Trip you. This bonus also applies to saving throws against
spells or effects that attempt to force you to move or knock you prone.
In addition, if any effect would force you to move 10 feet or more, you are
moved only half the distance.
Strong-Blooded Dwarf
Your blood runs hearty and strong, and you can shake off toxins. You gain
poison resistance equal to half your level (minimum 1), and each of your
successful saving throws against a poison affliction reduces its stage by 2, or
by 1 for a virulent poison. Each critical success against an ongoing poison
reduces its stage by 3, or by 2 for a virulent poison.
HIT POINTS
10
SIZE
Medium
SPEED
20 feet
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
Constitution
Wisdom
Free
ATTRIBUTE FLAW
Charisma
LANGUAGES
Common
Dwarven
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Gnomish, Goblin, Jotun,
Orcish, Petran, Sakvroth, and any other
languages to which you have access
(such as the languages prevalent in
your region).
TRAITS
Dwarf
Humanoid
DARKVISION
You can see in darkness and dim light
just as well as you can see in bright
light, though your vision in darkness is
in black and white.
CLAN DAGGER
You get one clan dagger (page 277) for
free, as it was given to you at birth.
Selling this clan dagger is a terrible
taboo and earns you the disdain of
other dwarves.

Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a dwarf, you
select from among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
DWARVEN DOUGHTINESS FEAT 1
DWARF
You are naturally calm and collected in the face of imminent danger. At the end of
your turn, reduce your frightened condition by 2 instead of 1.
DWARVEN LORE FEAT 1
DWARF
You eagerly absorbed the old stories and traditions of your ancestors, your gods,
and your people, studying subjects and techniques passed down for generation
upon generation. You gain the trained proficiency rank in Crafting and Religion. If
you would automatically become trained in one of those skills
(from your background or class, for example), you instead
become trained in a skill of your choice.
You also gain the Additional Lore general feat for Dwarf Lore.
DWARVEN WEAPON FAMILIARITY FEAT 1
DWARF
Your kin have instilled in you an affinity for hard-hitting
weapons, and you prefer these to more elegant arms. You gain
access to all uncommon weapons with the dwarf trait. You have
familiarity with weapons with the dwarf trait plus the battle
axe, pick, and warhammer—for the purposes of proficiency, you
treat any of these that are martial weapons as simple weapons
and any that are advanced weapons as martial weapons.
At 5th level, whenever you get a critical hit with one of
these weapons, you get its critical specialization effect.
MOUNTAIN STRATEGY FEAT 1
DWARF
Dwarves have a long history fighting common foes, and you’ve
mastered the ancient tactics to better face these enemies. You
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to damage with weapons and
unarmed attacks against creatures with the giant, goblin, hryngar,
or orc trait. If your attack would deal more than one weapon die
of damage (as is common at higher levels than 1st), the bonus is
equal to the number of weapon dice or unarmed attack dice.
In addition, if any creature critically succeeds at an attack
against you and deals damage to you, you gain your bonus
to damage against that creature for 1 minute regardless of
whether it has the chosen trait.
Special Your GM can add appropriate creature traits to the
ancestral foes list if your character is from a community
that commonly fights other types of enemies.
ROCK RUNNER FEAT 1
DWARF
Your innate connection to stone makes you adept at moving
across uneven surfaces. You can ignore difficult terrain caused
by stone (such as rubble or gravel) and uneven ground made of
stone and earth. In addition, when you use the Acrobatics skill
to Balance on narrow surfaces or uneven ground made of stone
or earth, you aren’t off-guard, and when you roll a success at one
of these Acrobatics checks, you get a critical success instead.
STONEMASON’S EYE FEAT 1
DWARF
You understand the intricacies of stonework. You become
trained in Crafting. If you’re already trained in Crafting, you
instead gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat for stonemasonry.
You also gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks
to notice unusual stonework. This bonus applies to checks to
discover mechanical traps made of stone or hidden within stone.
If you aren’t using the Seek action or searching, the GM
automatically rolls a secret check for you to notice unusual
stonework anyway. This check doesn’t gain your normal
circumstance bonus.

UNBURDENED IRON FEAT 1
DWARF
You’ve learned techniques first devised by your ancestors
during their ancient wars, allowing you to comfortably wear
massive suits of armor. Ignore the reduction to your Speed from
any armor you wear.
In addition, any time you’re taking a penalty to your
Speed for some other reason (such as from the encumbered
condition or from a spell), deduct 5 feet from the penalty. For
example, the encumbered condition normally gives a –10-foot
penalty to Speed, but this feat would reduce it to a –5-foot
penalty. If your Speed is taking multiple penalties, pick only
one penalty to reduce.
5TH LEVEL
BOULDER ROLL [two-actions] FEAT 5
DWARF
Prerequisites Rock Runner
Your dwarven build allows you to push foes around, just like a
mighty boulder tumbles through a subterranean cavern. Take
a Step into the square of a foe that is your size or smaller, and
the foe must move into the empty space directly behind it. The
foe must move even if doing so places it in harm’s way. The foe
can attempt a Fortitude saving throw against your Athletics
DC to block your Step. If the foe attempts this saving throw,
it takes bludgeoning damage equal to your level plus your
Strength modifier unless it critically succeeds.
If the foe can’t move into an empty space (if it is surrounded
by solid objects or other creatures, for example), your Boulder
Roll has no effect.
DEFY THE DARKNESS FEAT 5
DWARF
Prerequisites darkvision
Using ancient dwarven methods developed to fight enemies
wielding magical darkness, you’ve honed your darkvision
and sworn not to use such magic yourself. You gain greater
darkvision, enabling you to see through magical darkness
even if it normally hampers darkvision (such as the
darkness created by a 4th-rank darkness spell). You can’t
cast spells with the darkness trait, use item activations
with the darkness trait, or use any other ability with the
darkness trait.
DWARVEN REINFORCEMENT FEAT 5
DWARF
Prerequisites expert in Crafting
You can use your knowledge of engineering and metalwork
to temporarily strengthen thick objects and structures. By
spending 1 hour working on an item, you can give it a +1
circumstance bonus to its Hardness for 24 hours. If you’re a
master in Crafting, the bonus is +2, and if you’re legendary,
the bonus is +3. You can reinforce a portion of a structure,
though 1 hour usually reinforces only a door, a few windows,
or another section that fits within a 10-foot cube.
9TH LEVEL
ECHOES IN STONE [one-action] FEAT 9
CONCENTRATE DWARF
Requirements You are standing on a stone or earthen surface.
You pause a moment to attune your senses to the stone around
you. Until the start of your next turn, you gain imprecise
tremorsense with a range of 20 feet.
MOUNTAIN’S STOUTNESS FEAT 9
DWARF
Your hardiness lets you withstand more punishment than most.
Increase your maximum Hit Points by your level. When you
have the dying condition, the DC of your recovery checks is
equal to 9 + your dying value (instead of 10 + your dying value).
If you also have the Toughness feat, the Hit Points gained
from it and this feat are cumulative, and the DC of your
recovery checks is equal to 6 + your dying value.
STONE BONES [reaction] FEAT 9
DWARF
Trigger You are struck by a critical hit that deals physical damage.
Your intractable nature can help you shrug off even the
most grievous injuries. Attempt a DC 17 flat check. If you are
successful, the attack becomes a normal hit.
STONEWALKER FEAT 9
DWARF
You have a deep reverence for and connection to
stone. You can cast one with stone as a 3rd-rank
divine innate spell once per day.
If you have the Stonemason’s Eye feat, you can
attempt to find unusual stonework and stonework
traps that require legendary proficiency in
Perception. If you have both Stonemason’s Eye and
legendary proficiency in Perception, when the GM
rolls a secret check for you to notice unusual stonework,
you keep your bonus from Stonemason’s Eye.
13TH LEVEL
MARCH THE MINES [two-actions] FEAT 13
DWARF
You march through the earth and lead an ally
along. You gain a burrow Speed of 15 feet when
you use this activity (if you don’t have a higher
one), and then you either Stride twice or Burrow
twice. You can choose one willing ally adjacent to
you at the start of your movement to move with you.
That ally ends its movement one square behind you.
TELLURIC POWER FEAT 13
DWARF
You channel strength from the earth beneath your
feet to pummel your enemies. When making a melee
Strike against a target who is standing on the same earth

or stone surface as you are, you gain a circumstance bonus to
the damage roll equal to the number of weapon damage dice.
17TH LEVEL
STONEGATE FEAT 17
UNCOMMON DWARF
Prerequisites Stonewalker
Earthen barriers no longer impede your progress. You gain
magic passage as a 7th-rank divine innate spell that you can
cast once per day. Unlike the spell, however, this ability can be
used only to open passages through barriers of earth or stone.
STONEWALL [reaction] FEAT 17
DWARF EARTH POLYMORPH
Frequency once per day
Trigger An enemy or hazard’s effect hits you or you fail a
Fortitude save against one.
The strength of stone overcomes you so strongly that it
replaces your stout body. You become petrified until the end of
the current turn. You don’t take any damage from the triggering
effect or any other ill effects that couldn’t affect stone.
ELF
As an ancient people, elves have seen great change and
have the perspective that can come only from watching
the arc of history. After leaving Golarion in ancient times,
they returned to a changed land, and they still struggle
to reclaim their ancestral homes. Elves value kindness,
intellect, and beauty, with many elves striving to improve
their manners, appearance, and culture. Their studies
delve into a level of detail that most shorter-lived peoples
find excessive or inefficient. Elves are often rather private
people, steeped in the secrets of their groves and kinship
groups. They’re slow to build friendships outside their

kinsfolk, as elves who spend their lives among shorter-
lived peoples often become morose after watching

generations of companions age and die. These elves are
known as Forlorn among their fellow elves.
If you want a character who is magical, mystical,
and mysterious, you should play an elf.
You might...
• Carefully curate your relationships with people
with shorter lifespans.
• Adopt specialized or obscure interests
simply for the sake of mastering them.
Others probably...
• Focus on your appearance,
either admiring your
grace or treating
you as if you’re
physically fragile.
• Worry that you privately
look down on them, or feel like you’re
condescending and aloof.
Physical Description
While generally taller than humans, elves possess
a fragile grace, accentuated by long features and
sharply pointed ears. Their eyes are wide and
rounded, featuring large and often vibrantly
colored pupils that make up the entire visible
portion of the eye. These pupils give them an
alien look and allow them to see sharply even
in very little light.
Elves gradually adapt to their environment
and their companions, and they often take on
physical traits reflecting their surroundings.
An elf who has dwelled in primeval forests for
centuries, for example, might exhibit verdant hair and
gnarled fingers, while one who’s lived in a desert
might have golden pupils and skin. Elves reach
physical adulthood around the age of 20, though
they aren’t considered to be fully emotionally mature by

other elves until closer to the passing of their first century.
A typical elf can live to around 600 years old.
Society
The inborn patience and intellectual curiosity of elves
make them excellent sages, philosophers, and wizards,
and their societies are built upon their inherent sense of
wonder and knowledge.
Elves hold deeply seated ideals of individualism,
allowing each elf to explore multiple occupations before
alighting on a particular pursuit or passion that suits her
best. Elves bear notorious grudges against rivals, which
elves call ‘ilduliel,’ but these antagonistic relationships
can sometimes blossom into friendships over time. An elf
keeps their personal name secret among their family,
while giving a nickname when meeting other
people. This nickname can change over time, due
to events in the elf’s life or even on a whim. A
single elf might be known by
many names by associates of
different ages and regions.
Elven names consist of
multiple syllables and are
meant to flow lyrically—at
least in the Elven tongue.
Sample Names: Aerel,
Amrunelara, Caladrel, Dardlara,
Faunra, Heldalel, Jathal, Lanliss,
Oparal, Seldlon, Soumral,
Talathel, Tessara, Variel,
Yalandlara, Zordlon
Beliefs
Elves are often emotional and
capricious, yet they hold high
ideals close to their hearts. They
prefer deities who share their love
of all things mystic and artistic.
Desna and Shelyn are particular
favorites, the former for her
sense of wonder and the latter
for her appreciation of artistry.
Calistria is the most notorious
of elven deities, as she represents
many of the elven ideals taken
to the extreme.
Popular Edicts find beauty in nature
and art, explore things others would
keep hidden, demonstrate superiority

to your rival
Popular Anathema abandon your own path, force
another creature to do something
HIT POINTS
6
SIZE
Medium
SPEED
30 feet
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
Dexterity
Intelligence
Free
ATTRIBUTE FLAW
Constitution
LANGUAGES
Common
Elven
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Draconic, Empyrean, Fey,
Gnomish, Goblin, Kholo, Orcish, and
any other languages to which you have
access (such as the languages prevalent
in your region).
TRAITS
Elf
Humanoid
LOW-LIGHT VISION
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, so you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
Elf Heritages
Elves live long lives, have multitudes of experiences, and adapt to their
environment after dwelling there for a long time. Choose one of the following
elven heritages at 1st level.
Ancient Elf
In your long life, you’ve dabbled in many paths and many styles. A typical
ancient elf is at least 100 years old, though you might be younger at the
GM’s discretion. Choose a class other than your own. You gain the
multiclass dedication feat for that class, even though you don’t meet its level
prerequisite (page 215). You must still meet its other prerequisites to gain
the feat.
Arctic Elf
You dwell deep in the frozen north and have gained incredible resilience
against cold environments, granting you cold resistance equal to half your
level (minimum 1). You treat environmental cold effects as if they were one
step less extreme (incredible cold becomes extreme, extreme cold becomes
severe, and so on).
Cavern Elf
You were born or spent many years in underground tunnels or caverns where
light is scarce. You gain darkvision.
Seer Elf
You have an inborn ability to detect and understand magical phenomena.
You can cast the detect magic cantrip as an arcane innate spell at will.
A cantrip is heightened to a spell rank equal to half your level rounded up.
In addition, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to checks to Identify Magic
and to Decipher Writing of a magical nature. These skill actions typically use
the Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion skill.
Whisper Elf
Your ears are finely tuned, able to detect even the slightest whispers of sound.
You gain a +2 circumstance bonus when using the Seek action to find hidden
or undetected creatures within 30 feet of you. When you target an opponent
that is concealed from you or hidden from you, reduce the DC of the flat
check to 3 for a concealed target or 9 for a hidden one. This benefit doesn’t
apply if you can’t hear or if the creature is incapable of making sound (for
example, if it’s affected by a silence spell).
Woodland Elf
You’re adapted to life in the forest, the deep jungle, or a similar environment,
and you know how to climb trees and use foliage to your advantage. When
Climbing trees, vines, and other foliage, you move at half your Speed on a
success and at full Speed on a critical success (and you move at full Speed on
a success if you have Quick Climb). This doesn’t affect you if you’re using
a climb Speed.
You can always use the Take Cover action when you are within forest
terrain to gain cover, even if you’re not next to an obstacle you can Take
Cover behind.
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th level). As an elf, you
select from among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
ANCESTRAL LONGEVITY FEAT 1
ELF
Prerequisites at least 100 years old
You have accumulated a vast array of lived knowledge over the
years. During your daily preparations, you can reflect upon your
life experiences to gain the trained proficiency rank in one skill of
your choice. This proficiency lasts until you prepare again. Since
this proficiency is temporary, you can’t use it as a prerequisite
for a skill increase or a permanent character option like a feat.
ELVEN LORE FEAT 1
ELF
You’ve studied traditional elven arts, learning about arcane
magic and the world around you. You gain the trained proficiency
rank in Arcana and Nature. If you would automatically become
trained in one of those skills (from your background or class, for
example), you instead become trained in a skill of your choice.
You also gain the Additional Lore general feat for Elf Lore.
ELVEN WEAPON FAMILIARITY FEAT 1
ELF
You favor bows and other elegant weapons. You gain access to
all uncommon weapons with the elf trait. You have familiarity
with weapons with the elf trait plus longbows, composite
longbows, rapiers, shortbows, and composite shortbows—for
the purposes of proficiency, you treat any of these that are
martial weapons as simple weapons and any that are advanced
weapons as martial weapons.
At 5th level, whenever you get a critical hit with one of
these weapons, you get its critical specialization effect.
FORLORN FEAT 1
ELF
Watching your friends age and die fills you with moroseness
that protects you against harmful emotions. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to saving throws against emotion effects.
If you roll a success on a saving throw against an emotion
effect, you get a critical success instead.
NIMBLE ELF FEAT 1
ELF
Your muscles are tightly honed. Your Speed increases by 5 feet.
OTHERWORLDLY MAGIC FEAT 1
ELF
Your elven magic manifests as a simple arcane spell, even if
you aren’t formally trained in magic. Choose one cantrip from
the arcane spell list (page 304). You can cast this cantrip as an
arcane innate spell at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell
rank equal to half your level rounded up.
UNWAVERING MIEN FEAT 1
ELF
Your mystic control and meditations allow you to resist

external influences upon your consciousness. Whenever you
are affected by a mental effect that lasts at least 2 rounds, you
can reduce the duration by 1 round.
You still require natural sleep, but you treat your saving
throws against effects that would cause you to fall asleep as
one degree of success better. This protects only against sleep
effects, not against other forms of falling unconscious.
5TH LEVEL
AGELESS PATIENCE FEAT 5
ELF
You work at a pace born from longevity that enhances your
thoroughness. You can voluntarily spend twice as much
time as normal on a Perception check or skill check. If you
do, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the check and don’t
automatically reduce your degree of success on a natural 1
(you get a critical failure only if your result is 10 lower than
the DC). For example, you could get these benefits if you
spent 2 actions to Seek, which normally takes 1 action. You
can get these benefits during exploration by taking twice as
long exploring as normal, or in downtime by spending twice
as much downtime.
The GM might determine a situation doesn’t grant you
a benefit if a delay would be directly counterproductive
to your success, such as a tense negotiation with
an impatient creature.
ANCESTRAL SUSPICION FEAT 5
ELF
Long-lived elves have seen civilizations rise and fall, often at
the hands of outside forces. As a result, they have developed
a wariness of others who might seek to influence or control
them. You’ve been trained to resist such manipulation, gaining
a +2 circumstance bonus to saving throws against effects
that would make you controlled, such as dominate, and to
Perception checks to Sense Motive when trying to determine
if a creature is under the influence of such an effect. When you
roll a success on a saving throw against such an effect, you get
a critical success instead.
MARTIAL EXPERIENCE FEAT 5
ELF
You’ve crossed blades with a wide variety of foes wielding
a wide variety of weapons, and you’ve learned the basics
of fighting with nearly any of them. When wielding a
weapon you aren’t proficient with, treat your level as your
proficiency bonus.
At 11th level, you become trained in all weapons.
9TH LEVEL
ELF STEP [one-action] FEAT 9
ELF
You move in a graceful dance, and even your steps are broad.
You Step 5 feet twice.
EXPERT LONGEVITY FEAT 9
ELF
Prerequisites Ancestral Longevity
You’ve continued to refine the knowledge and skills you’ve
gained through your life. When you choose a skill in which
to become trained with Ancestral Longevity, you can also
choose a skill in which you are already trained and become
an expert in that skill. This lasts until your Ancestral
Longevity expires.
When the effects of Ancestral Longevity and Expert
Longevity expire, you can retrain one of your skill increases.
The skill increase you gain from this retraining must either
make you trained in the skill you chose with Ancestral
Longevity or make you an expert in the skill you chose with
Expert Longevity.
OTHERWORLDLY ACUMEN FEAT 9
ELF
Prerequisites at least one innate spell gained from an elf
ancestry feat
The arcane magic you possess grows in power and complexity.
Choose one common 2nd-rank spell from the same tradition
as an innate spell you previously gained from another elf
ancestry feat (from the arcane list if you have Otherworldly
Magic, for example). You can cast that spell as an innate spell
once per day, using the same tradition as the list you chose
the spell from.
Your magic is adaptable. By spending 1 day of downtime,
you can change the spell you chose to a different common
2nd-rank spell from the same tradition.
TREE CLIMBER FEAT 9
ELF
You’ve spent much of your life among the treetops and have
become an expert at quickly and safely climbing them. You
gain a climb Speed of 10 feet.
13TH LEVEL
AVENGE ALLY [one-action] FEAT 13
ELF FORTUNE
Frequency once every 10 minutes
Requirements You are within 30 feet of an ally with the
dying condition.
Though you know that you will eventually outlive your
companions, seeing them at death’s door brings clarity to your
attacks. Make a Strike. Roll twice on the attack roll and use
the higher result.
UNIVERSAL LONGEVITY [one-action] FEAT 13
ELF
Prerequisites Ancestral Longevity
Frequency once per day
You’ve perfected your ability to keep up with
all the skills you’ve learned over your long
life, so you’re almost never truly untrained

at a skill. You reflect on your life experiences, changing the
skill you selected with Ancestral Longevity (and the skill you
selected with Expert Longevity if you have that feat).
17TH LEVEL
MAGIC RIDER FEAT 17
ELF
Your people used powerful magic to travel between distant
worlds in the distant past, and the remnants of that magic
make such transportation easier for you. When you are
the target of a teleportation spell that transports more
than one person, it can affect an additional person beyond
the normal limit, chosen by the caster. Additionally, when
you’re the target of a teleport spell, you and the other
targets arrive no farther than 1 mile off target, regardless
of distance traveled.
GNOME
Long ago, early gnome ancestors emigrated from the
First World, realm of the fey. While it’s unclear why the
first gnomes wandered to Golarion, this lineage manifests
in modern gnomes as bizarre reasoning, eccentricity,
obsessive tendencies, and what some see as naivete.
Always hungry for new experiences, gnomes constantly
wander both mentally and physically, attempting to
stave off a terrible ailment that threatens all of their
people. This affliction, known as the Bleaching, strikes
gnomes who fail to dream, innovate, and take in new
experiences. The Bleaching slowly drains the color—
literally—from gnomes, and it plunges those affected
into states of deep depression that eventually claim their
lives. Very few gnomes survive this scourge, becoming
deeply morose and wise survivors known as bleachlings.
If you want a character with boundless enthusiasm
and an alien, fey outlook on morality and life, you
should play a gnome.
You might...
• Embrace learning and hop from one area of study
to another without warning.
• Speak, think, and move quickly, and lose patience
with those who can’t keep up.
Others probably...
• Appreciate your enthusiasm and the
energy with which you approach
new situations.
• Struggle to understand your
motivations or adapt to your rapid
changes of direction.
Physical Description
Most gnomes stand just over 3 feet in
height and weigh little more than a
human child. They exhibit a
wide range of natural skin,
hair, and eye colors. For
gnomes that haven’t begun the
Bleaching, nearly any hair and
eye color other than white is
possible, with vibrant colors
most frequent, while skin
tones span a slightly narrower
spectrum and tend toward
earthy tones and pinkish hues,
though occasionally green, black, or
pale blue.
Gnomes typically reach physical maturity
at the age of 18, though many gnomes
maintain a childlike curiosity about the

world even into adulthood. A gnome can theoretically
live to any age if they can stave off the Bleaching
indefinitely, but in practice gnomes rarely live longer
than around 400 years.
Society
While most gnomes adopt some of the cultural practices
of the region in which they live, they tend to pick and
choose, adjusting their communities to fit their own fey
logic. This often leads to majority gnome communities
eventually consisting almost entirely of gnomes, as other
people, bewildered by gnomish political decisions, choose
to move elsewhere. Gnomes have little culture that they
would consider entirely their own. Exceptionally few
gnome kingdoms or nations exist on the surface of
Golarion, and most gnomes wouldn’t know what to do
with such a state if they had one.
By necessity, few gnomes marry for life, instead
allowing relationships to run their course before amicably
moving on, the better to stave off the Bleaching with new
experiences. Though gnome families tend to be small,
many gnome communities raise children communally,
with fluid family boundaries. Gnome names can get
quite complex and polysyllabic. Gnomes rarely concern
themselves with how easy their names are to pronounce,
and they often go by shorter nicknames. Among
gnomes, the shorter the name, the more feminine
it’s considered to be.
Sample Names: Abroshtor, Bastargre,
Besh, Fijit, Halungalom, Krolmnite,
Neji, Majet, Pai, Poshment, Queck, Trig,
Zarzuket, Zatqualmie
Beliefs
Though gnomes are impulsive
tricksters with inscrutable motives
and confusing methods, many at
least attempt to make the world a
better place. They are prone to fits
of powerful emotion and are rarely
shy about helping those they
believe deserve it. Gnomes most
commonly worship deities that
value individuality and nature, such
as Cayden Cailean, Desna, Gozreh,
and Shelyn.
Popular Edicts seek new experiences,
embrace your inspiration, move from
obsession to obsession
Popular Anathema slow down
to explain yourself, deprive
someone of all stimulation
HIT POINTS
8
SIZE
Small
SPEED
25 feet
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
Constitution
Charisma
Free
ATTRIBUTE FLAW
Strength
LANGUAGES
Common
Fey
Gnomish
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Draconic, Dwarven, Elven,
Goblin, Jotun, Orcish, and any other
languages to which you have access
(such as the languages prevalent in
your region).
TRAITS
Gnome
Humanoid
LOW-LIGHT VISION
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, and you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
Gnome Heritages
As a diverse collection of oddballs, gnome heritages aren’t often determined
by geography, but usually by some peculiarity of magic. Choose one of the
following gnome heritages at 1st level.
Chameleon Gnome
The color of your hair and skin is mutable, possibly due to latent magic
from First World influences or lingering illusion effects. You can slowly
change the vibrancy and the exact color, and the coloration can be different
across your body, allowing you to create patterns or other colorful designs.
It takes a single action for minor localized shifts and up to an hour for
dramatic shifts throughout your body. While you’re asleep, the colors shift
on their own in tune with your dreams, giving you an unusual coloration
each morning. When you’re in an area where your coloration is roughly
similar to the environment (for instance, forest green in a forest), you can
use the single action to make minor localized shifts designed to help you
blend into your surroundings. This grants you a +2 circumstance bonus to
Stealth checks until your surroundings shift in coloration or pattern.
Fey-touched Gnome
The blood of the fey flows through your veins, saturating you with their
magic and making you truly one of them. You gain the fey trait, in addition
to the gnome and humanoid traits. Choose one cantrip from the primal
spell list (page 311). You can cast this spell as a primal innate spell at will.
A cantrip is heightened to a spell rank equal to half your level rounded
up. You can change this cantrip to a different one from the same list once
per day by meditating to realign yourself with the First World; this is a
10-minute activity that has the concentrate trait.
Sensate Gnome
You see all colors as brighter, hear all sounds as richer, and especially smell
all scents with incredible detail. You gain a special sense: imprecise scent
with a range of 30 feet. This means you can use your sense of smell to
determine the exact location of a creature (as explained on page 434). The
GM will usually double the range if you’re downwind from the creature or
halve the range if you’re upwind.
In addition, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks
whenever you’re trying to locate an undetected creature that is within the
range of your scent.
Umbral Gnome
Whether from a connection to dark or shadowy fey, from the underground
gnomes known as drathnelar, or from another source, you can see in complete
darkness. You gain darkvision.
Wellspring Gnome
Some other source of magic has a greater hold on you than the primal magic
of your fey lineage does. This connection might come from an occult plane
or an ancient occult song; a deity, celestial, or fiend; magical effluent left
behind by a mage war; or ancient rune magic.
Choose arcane, divine, or occult. You gain one cantrip from that magical
tradition’s spell list (pages 304–309). You can cast this spell as an innate
spell at will, as a spell of your chosen tradition. A cantrip is heightened to a
spell rank equal to half your level rounded up. Whenever you gain a primal
innate spell from a gnome ancestry feat, change its tradition from primal to
your chosen tradition.
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a gnome, you select from
among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
ANIMAL ACCOMPLICE FEAT 1
GNOME
You build a rapport with an animal, which becomes magically
bonded to you. You gain a familiar using the rules on page
212. The type of animal is up to you, but most gnomes choose
animals with a burrow Speed.
ANIMAL ELOCUTIONIST FEAT 1
GNOME
You hear animal sounds as conversations instead of
unintelligent noise, and you can respond in turn. You can ask
questions of, receive answers from, and use the Diplomacy
skill with animals. In most cases, wild animals will give you
time to make your case. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
Make an Impression on animals.
FEY FELLOWSHIP FEAT 1
GNOME
Your enhanced fey connection (either through your blood or
via prolonged contact with their kind) affords you a warmer
reception from creatures of the First World as well as tools
to foil their tricks or withstand their magic. You gain a +2
circumstance bonus to both Perception checks and saving
throws against fey.
In addition, whenever you meet a fey creature in a social
situation, you can immediately attempt a Diplomacy check
to Make an Impression on that creature rather than needing
to converse for 1 minute. You take a –5 penalty to the check.
If you fail, you can engage in 1 minute of conversation and
attempt a new check at the end of that time rather than
accepting the failure or critical failure result.
FIRST WORLD MAGIC FEAT 1
GNOME
Your connection to the First World grants you a primal innate
spell, much like those of the fey. Choose one cantrip from the
primal spell list (page 311). You can cast this spell as a primal
innate spell at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell rank
equal to half your level rounded up.
GNOME OBSESSION FEAT 1
GNOME
You might have a flighty nature, but when a topic captures your
attention, you dive into it headfirst. You gain the Additional
Lore feat (page 252) and the Assurance feat for the chosen
Lore. As gnome obsessions can come and go quickly, you can
retrain Gnome Obsession to a different Lore subcategory in 1
day of downtime.

GNOME WEAPON FAMILIARITY FEAT 1
GNOME
You favor unusual weapons tied to your people, such as blades
with curved and peculiar shapes. You gain access to kukris
and all uncommon weapons with the gnome trait. You have
familiarity with weapons with the gnome trait plus the glaive
and kukri—for the purposes of proficiency, you treat any of
these that are martial weapons as simple weapons and any
that are advanced weapons as martial weapons.
At 5th level, whenever you get a critical hit with one of
these weapons, you get its critical specialization effect.
ILLUSION SENSE FEAT 1
GNOME
Your ancestors spent their days cloaked and cradled in illusions,
and as a result, sensing illusion magic is second nature to you.
You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to both Perception checks
and Will saves against illusions.
When you come within 10 feet of an illusion that can be
disbelieved, the GM rolls a secret check for you to disbelieve
it, even if you didn’t spend an action to Interact with
the illusion.
RAZZLE-DAZZLE [free-action] FEAT 1
GNOME
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You blind or dazzle a creature.
You’ve spent considerable time practicing the manipulation
of light, weaponizing your blade’s reflection or bolstering the
luminosity of magical displays to unconventional heights.
Extend the duration of the blinded or dazzled condition you
give the target by 1 round.
5TH LEVEL
ENERGIZED FONT [one-action] FEAT 5
GNOME
Prerequisites focus pool, at least one innate spell from a
gnome heritage or ancestry feat that shares a tradition
with at least one of your focus spells
Frequency once per day
You can focus your mind more quickly thanks to the magic
that flows within you. You regain 1 Focus Point, up to your
usual maximum.
PROJECT PERSONA [one-action] FEAT 5
CONCENTRATE GNOME ILLUSION PRIMAL VISUAL
Where others etch their armor to serve as a conduit for their
imaginations, your vivid mind and bold personality allow
you to project a more fitting persona over your lackluster
armor. You change the shape and appearance of your armor
to appear as ordinary or fine clothes of your imagining. The
armor’s statistics don’t change. This effect lasts as long as you
remain conscious and are wearing the armor. A creature can
disbelieve the illusion by Seeking or touching your armor. The
DC equals your Will DC.
9TH LEVEL
CAUTIOUS CURIOSITY FEAT 9
GNOME
Prerequisites at least one arcane or occult innate spell gained
from a gnome heritage or gnome ancestry feat
You’ve learned a few magical techniques for getting yourself
both into and out of trouble unnoticed. You gain disguise magic
and silence as 2nd-rank arcane or occult innate spells. The
tradition of these spells must match the tradition you use for
your gnome ancestry options. You can cast each spell once per
day and can target only yourself.
FIRST WORLD ADEPT FEAT 9
GNOME
Prerequisites at least one primal innate spell
Over time your fey magic has grown stronger. You gain
invisibility and revealing light as 2nd-rank primal innate
spells. You can cast each of these primal innate spells once
per day.
LIFE LEAP [one-action] FEAT 9
GNOME MOVE TELEPORTATION
Requirements You must be adjacent to a living creature.
You phase through a space that a living creature occupies in
a flash, spontaneously appearing on the opposite side of it
in a vibrant display of colorful light. You move from your
current location to another location that’s still adjacent
to the same living creature, but on the opposite side
or corner of the creature’s space. To determine
whether a position is valid, use the same rules
as for flanking: a line through the center of the
two spaces must pass through opposite sides or
corners of the creature’s space.
You pass through the creature’s life force,
appearing in the selected location; this doesn’t trigger
reactions based on movement. You must be able to see your
destination, and you can’t move farther than your Speed
would allow.
VIVACIOUS CONDUIT FEAT 9
GNOME
Your connection to the First World has grown, and its vital
energy flows into you rapidly. If you rest for 10 minutes, you
regain Hit Points equal to your Constitution modifier × half
your level. This is a healing vitality effect and is cumulative
with any healing you receive from Treat Wounds.
13TH LEVEL
INSTINCTIVE OBFUSCATION [reaction] FEAT 13
GNOME ILLUSION VISUAL
Prerequisites at least one arcane or occult innate spell gained
from a gnome heritage or gnome ancestry feat
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You are attacked by a foe, but they haven’t rolled yet.

The magic within you manifests as a natural reaction to
threats. An illusory double of you appears in your space for
a brief moment. The triggering attacker must roll a DC 10
flat check; on a success, the attack targets you normally; if
they fail, the attack targets the double and destroys it. The
tradition of this action matches the tradition of your gnome
ancestry options.
17TH LEVEL
HOMEWARD BOUND FEAT 17
UNCOMMON GNOME
Frequency twice per week
The connection between you and the First World resonates
within your body stronger than it does for most gnomes,
allowing you to cross the threshold between the Universe
and the First World. You gain interplanar teleport as a primal
innate spell. You can cast it twice per week. This can be used
only to travel back and forth between the First World and
the Universe. Due to your body’s natural resonance, you can
act as a locus for the spell, and you don’t require a specially
attuned planar key.
GOBLIN
The convoluted histories other people cling to don’t
interest goblins. These small folk live in the moment, and
they prefer tall tales over factual records. Goblin virtues
are about being present, creative, and honest. They strive
to lead fulfilled lives, rather than worrying about how
their journeys will end. To tell stories, not nitpick the
facts. To be small, but dream big. Many goblins enjoy
simpler delights like songs, fire, and eating, and hate
reading, dogs, and horses. Other goblins might have more
complex pursuits, though, such as tinkering with scraps
or concocting snacks and explosives from most anything.
If you want a character who is eccentric, enthusiastic,
and fun-loving, you should play a goblin.
You might...
• Strive to prove that you have a place among other
civilized peoples, perhaps even to yourself.
• Lighten the heavy emotional burdens others carry
(and amuse yourself) with antics and pranks.
Others probably...
• Work to ensure you don’t accidentally (or
intentionally) set too many things on fire.

• Wonder how you survive given your ancestry’s
typical gastronomic choices, reckless behavior, and
love of fire.
Physical Description
Goblins are stumpy humanoids with large bodies,
scrawny limbs, and massively oversized heads with large
ears and beady red eyes. Their skin ranges from green to
gray to blue, and they often bear scars, boils, and rashes.
Goblins average 3 feet tall. Most are bald, with little
or no body hair. Their jagged teeth fall out and regrow
constantly, and their fast metabolism means they eat
constantly and nap frequently. Mutations are also more
common among goblins than other peoples, and goblins
usually view particularly salient mutations as a sign of
power or fortune.
Goblins reach adolescence by the age of 3 and
adulthood 4 or 5 years later. Goblins can live 50 years
or more, but without anyone to protect them from each
other or themselves, few live past 20 years of age.
Society
Goblins tend to flock to strong leaders, forming small
tribes. These tribes rarely number more than a hundred,
though the larger a tribe is, the more diligent the leader
must be to keep order—a notoriously difficult task. Play
and creativity matter more to goblins than productivity
or study, and their encampments erupt with songs
and laughter.
Goblins bond closely with their allies, fiercely
protecting those companions who have protected
them or offered a sympathetic ear. Goblins tend
to assume for their own protection that members
of taller ancestries, which goblins often refer
to colloquially as “longshanks,” won’t treat them
kindly. Learning to trust longshanks is difficult for a
goblin, and it’s been only in recent years that such a
partnership has even been an option. Goblins keep
their names simple. A good name should be easy to
pronounce, short enough to shout without getting
winded, and taste good to say. The namer often picks
a word that rhymes with something they like so that
writing songs is easier.
Sample Names: Ak, Bokker, Frum, Guzmuk, Krobby,
Loohi, Mazmord, Neeka, Omgot, Ranzak, Rickle, Tup,
Wakla, Yonk, Zibini
Beliefs
Even the most well-intentioned goblins have trouble
following the rules, meaning goblin adventurers are
often unsure whether they’re on the right side of the
law. Organized worship likewise confounds goblins,
and most of them would rather pick their own deities, choosing powerful
monsters, natural wonders, or anything else they find fascinating—
sometimes even attributing deific status to fellow goblins of note. Goblins
who spend time around people of other ancestries might adopt some of
their beliefs, though, and many goblin adventurers adopt the worship of
Cayden Cailean.
Popular Edicts invent songs for every occasion, turn trash into your treasures, solve
problems with fire
Popular Anathema trust a dog or horse, learn to read
HIT POINTS
6
SIZE
Small
SPEED
25 feet
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
Dexterity
Charisma
Free
ATTRIBUTE FLAW
Wisdom
LANGUAGES
Common
Goblin
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Draconic, Dwarven,
Gnomish, Halfling, Kholo, Orcish, and
any other languages to which you have
access (such as the languages prevalent
in your region).
TRAITS
Goblin
Humanoid
DARKVISION
You can see in darkness and dim light
just as well as you can see in bright
light, though your vision in darkness is
in black and white.
Goblin Heritages
Goblins, especially those of different tribes, have all sorts of physiological
differences, which they often discover only through hazardous “experiments.”
Choose one of the following goblin heritages at 1st level.
Charhide Goblin
Your ancestors have always had a connection to fire and a thicker skin,
which allows you to resist burning. You gain fire resistance equal to half
your level minimum 1). You can also recover from being on fire more easily.
Your flat check to remove persistent fire damage is DC 10 instead of DC 15,
which is reduced to DC 5 if another creature uses a particularly appropriate
action to help.
Irongut Goblin
You can subsist on food that most folks would consider spoiled. You can
keep yourself fed with poor meals in a settlement as long as garbage is
readily available, without using the Subsist downtime activity. You can eat
and drink things when you are sickened.
You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to saving throws against afflictions,
against gaining the sickened condition, and to remove the sickened condition.
When you roll a success on a Fortitude save affected by this bonus, you get
a critical success instead. All these benefits apply only when the affliction or
condition resulted from something you ingested.
Razortooth Goblin
Your family’s teeth are formidable weapons. You gain a jaws unarmed attack
that deals 1d6 piercing damage. Your jaws are in the brawling group and
have the finesse and unarmed traits.
Snow Goblin
You are acclimated to living in frigid lands and have skin ranging from sky
blue to navy in color, as well as blue fur. You gain cold resistance equal to
half your level (minimum 1). You treat environmental cold effects as if they
were one step less extreme (incredible cold becomes extreme, extreme cold
becomes severe, and so on).
Unbreakable Goblin
You’re able to bounce back from injuries easily due to an exceptionally thick
skull, cartilaginous bones, or some other mixed blessing. You gain 10 Hit
Points from your ancestry instead of 6. When you fall, reduce the falling
damage you take as though you had fallen half the distance.
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a goblin,
you can select from the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
BURN IT! FEAT 1
GOBLIN
Fire fascinates you. Your spells and alchemical items that deal
fire damage gain a status bonus to damage equal to half the
spell’s rank or one-quarter the item’s level (minimum bonus +1).
You also gain a +1 status bonus to any persistent fire damage
you deal.
CITY SCAVENGER FEAT 1
GOBLIN
You know that the greatest treasures often look like refuse.
You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to checks to Subsist,
and you can use Society or Survival when you Subsist in a
settlement.
When you Subsist in a city, you also gather valuable junk
that silly longshanks threw away. You can Earn Income using
Society or Survival at the same time while you Subsist, without
spending any additional days of downtime. You also gain a +1
circumstance bonus to this check.
Special If you have the irongut goblin heritage, increase the
bonuses to +2.
GOBLIN LORE FEAT 1
GOBLIN
You’ve picked up skills and tales from your goblin
community. You gain the trained proficiency rank in Nature
and Stealth. If you would automatically become trained
in one of those skills (from your background or class, for
example), you instead become trained in a skill of your
choice.
You also gain the Additional Lore general feat for Goblin Lore.
GOBLIN SCUTTLE [reaction] FEAT 1
GOBLIN
Trigger An ally ends a move action adjacent to you.
You take advantage of your ally’s movement to adjust your
position. You Step.
GOBLIN SONG [one-action] FEAT 1
GOBLIN
You sing annoying goblin songs, distracting your foes with
silly and repetitive lyrics. Attempt a Performance check
against the Will DC of a single enemy within 30 feet. This has
all the usual traits and restrictions of a Performance check to
sing (page 243).
You can affect up to two targets within range if you have
expert proficiency in Performance, four if you have master
proficiency, and eight if you have legendary proficiency.
Critical Success The target takes a –1 status penalty to
Perception checks and Will saves for 1 minute.
Success The target takes a –1 status penalty to Perception
checks and Will saves for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target is temporarily immune to Goblin
Song for 1 hour.

GOBLIN WEAPON FAMILIARITY FEAT 1
GOBLIN
Others might look upon them with disdain, but you know
that the weapons of your people are as effective as they are
sharp. You gain access to all uncommon weapons with the
goblin trait. You have familiarity with weapons with the goblin
trait—for the purposes of proficiency, you treat any of these
that are martial weapons as simple weapons and any that are
advanced weapons as martial weapons.
At 5th level, whenever you get a critical hit with one of
these weapons, you get its critical specialization effect.
JUNK TINKER FEAT 1
GOBLIN
You can make useful tools out of even twisted or rusted scraps.
When using the Crafting skill to Craft, you can make level 0 items,
including weapons and armor, out of junk. This reduces the Price
to one-quarter the usual amount but always results in a shoddy
item. Shoddy items normally give a penalty, but you don’t take
this penalty when using shoddy items you made (nor does the
worse check penalty of shoddy armor you made apply to you).
You can also incorporate junk to save money while you Craft
any item. This grants you a discount on the item as if you had
spent 1 additional day working to reduce the cost, but the item
is obviously made of junk. At the GM’s discretion, this might
affect the item’s resale value depending on the buyer’s tastes.
ROUGH RIDER FEAT 1
GOBLIN
You are especially good at riding traditional goblin mounts. You
gain the Ride feat, even if you don’t meet the prerequisites.
You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Nature checks to use
Command an Animal on a goblin dog or wolf mount.
If you gain a wolf as an animal companion, it gains the mount
special ability (and if you gain an ability that grants you an animal
companion with the mount special ability, you can choose a wolf).
VERY SNEAKY FEAT 1
GOBLIN
Taller folk rarely pay attention to the shadows at their feet,
and you take full advantage of this. You can move 5 feet
farther when you take the Sneak action, up to your Speed.
In addition, as long as you continue to use Sneak actions
and succeed at your Stealth check, you don’t become observed
if you don’t have cover or greater cover and aren’t concealed
at the end of the Sneak action, as long as you have cover or
greater cover or are concealed at the end of your turn.
5TH LEVEL
KNEECAP [one-action] FEAT 5
GOBLIN
You deliver a punishing blow to an enemy’s knee, shin, or other
vulnerable anatomy within your reach. Make a melee Strike
with a melee weapons or melee unarmed attack. This attack
doesn’t deal damage. On a hit, the target takes a –10-foot status
penalty to its Speed (or a –15-foot status penalty on a critical hit).
The penalty lasts for 1 round. This penalty applies only if the
target has a land Speed and depends on legs or other targetable
appendages to use its land Speed. As with all penalties to Speed,
this can’t reduce a creature’s Speed below 5 feet.
LOUD SINGER FEAT 5
GOBLIN
Prerequisites Goblin Song
Staying on pitch, proper breath control, and remembering the
words are all less important than the real measure of a good
singer: volume! The range of your Goblin Song is increased to 60
feet, and you can target one additional enemy when you use it.
VANDAL FEAT 5
GOBLIN
You have a knack for breaking and dismantling things. Putting
them back together is the boring part, so you largely don’t
bother with that. You become trained in Thievery. If you
would automatically become trained in Thievery (from your
background or class, for example), you instead become trained
in a skill of your choice.
In addition, whenever you hit with a Strike against a trap
or an unattended object, you ignore the first 5 points of the
object’s Hardness.
9TH LEVEL
CAVE CLIMBER FEAT 9
GOBLIN
After years of clambering through caverns, you can climb
easily anywhere you go. You gain a climb Speed of 10 feet.
CLING [one-action] FEAT 9
GOBLIN
Requirements Your last action was a successful Strike and
you have a free hand.
You hang onto a foe to harry them into submission. If your target
moves while you’re hanging onto it, you can choose to move with
the target. The target is released if you choose not to move with
it, at the start of your next turn, or if the target Escapes. Attempts
to Escape from a Cling are made against your Acrobatics DC and
follow the rules on page 416, but they end the Cling instead of
the conditions normally ended by the Escape action.
Special You can use this action without a free hand if your
preceding Strike was made with your jaws or a similar
unarmed attack you could use to hang on. The GM
determines which unarmed attacks apply. Hanging on in this
way prevents you from using that unarmed attack.
SKITTERING SCUTTLE FEAT 9
GOBLIN
Prerequisites Goblin Scuttle
You can scuttle farther and faster when maneuvering
alongside allies. When you use Goblin Scuttle, you can Stride
up to half your Speed instead of Stepping.

13TH LEVEL
VERY, VERY SNEAKY FEAT 13
GOBLIN
Prerequisites Very Sneaky
You can move up to your Speed when you use the Sneak
action, and you no longer need to have cover or greater cover
or be concealed to Hide or Sneak.
17TH LEVEL
RECKLESS ABANDON [free-action] FEAT 17
FORTUNE GOBLIN
Frequency once per day
Despite a lifetime filled with questionable decisions, you’ve
managed to survive, as though you have uncanny luck that
lets you avoid the consequences of your own actions. For the
remainder of your turn, if you roll a failure or critical failure
on a saving throw against a harmful effect, you get a success
instead. Further, if you would take damage from an enemy
or hazard this turn you take the minimum possible damage.
These benefits apply only to harmful effects incurred
entirely during your turn in which you activate Reckless
Abandon, such as running through a wall of fire. Persistent
damage and conditions that were applied prior to your
turn proceed normally, and as soon as your turn ends you
are subject to the full consequences of any dangers still
threatening you.
HALFLING
Claiming no place as their own, halflings control few
settlements larger than villages. Instead, they frequently
live among humans within larger cities, carving out
small communities alongside taller folk. Optimistic,
cheerful, and driven by powerful wanderlust, halflings
make up for their short stature with an abundance of
bravado. At once excitable and easygoing, halflings are
the best kind of opportunists, and their passions favor
joy over violence. While their curiosity sometimes drives
them toward adventure, halflings also carry strong ties
to house and home.
If you want to play a character who must contend with
these opposing drives toward adventure and comfort, you
should play a halfling.
You might...
• Get along well with a wide variety of people and
enjoy meeting new friends.
• Find it difficult to resist indulging your curiosity,
even when you know it’s going to lead to trouble.

Others probably...
• Appreciate your ability to always find a silver lining
or something to laugh about, no matter how dire
the situation.
• Think you bring good luck with you.
Physical Description
Halflings are short humanoids who look vaguely like
smaller humans. They rarely grow to be more than 3 feet in
height. Halfling proportions vary, with some looking like
shorter adult humans with slightly larger heads and others
having proportions closer to those of a human child.
Most halflings prefer to walk barefoot rather than wear
shoes, and those who do so develop roughly calloused
soles on their feet over time. Tufts of thick, often-curly
hair warm the tops of their broad, tanned feet. Halfling
skin tones tend toward rich, tawny shades like amber or
oak, and their hair color ranges from a light golden blond
to raven black.
Halflings reach physical adulthood around the age of
20. A typical halfling can live to be around 150 years old.
Society
Despite their jovial and friendly nature, halflings don’t
usually tend to congregate. They have few cultural centers
in the Inner Sea region, and they instead tend to weave
themselves throughout the societies of the world. Halflings
eke out whatever living they can manage, many performing
menial labor or holding simple service jobs. Some halflings
reject city life, instead turning to the open road and traveling
from place to place in search of fortune and fame. These
nomadic halflings often travel in small groups, sharing
hardships and simple pleasures among close friends and
family. Halfling names are usually two to three syllables,
with a gentle sound that avoids hard consonants. Preferring
their names to sound humble, halflings see overly long or
complex names as a sign of arrogance for their people.
However, they understand that elves and humans might
have longer names to suit their own aesthetics.
Sample Names: Anafa, Antal, Bellis, Boram, Etune,
Filiu, Jamir, Kaleb, Linna, Marra, Miro, Rillka, Sistra,
Sumak, Yamyra
Beliefs
Halflings are loyal to their friends and their family, but
they aren’t afraid to do what needs to be done in order to
survive. Wherever halflings go, they seamlessly blend into
the society they find themselves in, adapting to the culture
and beliefs of the predominant ancestry around them and
adding their uniquely halfling twists, creating a blend of
cultural diffusion that enriches both cultures. Halflings
favor gods that either grant luck, like Desna, or encourage
guile, like Norgorber, and many appreciate Cayden Cailean’s role as a liberator,
as well as any religions common among other ancestries around them.
Popular Edicts share good meals with friends and strangers alike, stand up to bullies
and oppressors, stay beneath the taller folk’s notice
Popular Anathema take your luck for granted
HIT POINTS
6
SIZE
Small
SPEED
25 feet
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
Dexterity
Wisdom
Free
ATTRIBUTE FLAW
Strength
LANGUAGES
Common
Halfling
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Dwarven, Elven, Gnomish,
Goblin, and any other languages to
which you have access (such as the
languages prevalent in your region).
TRAITS
Halfling
Humanoid
KEEN EYES
Your eyes are sharp, allowing you to
make out small details about concealed
or even invisible creatures that others
might miss. You gain a +2 circumstance
bonus when using the Seek action to
find hidden or undetected creatures
within 30 feet of you. When you target
an opponent that is concealed from
you or hidden from you, reduce the DC
of the flat check to 3 for a concealed
target or 9 for a hidden one.
Halfling Heritages
Living all across the land, halflings of different heritages might appear in
regions far from where their ancestors lived. Choose one of the following
halfling heritages at 1st level.
Gutsy Halfling
Your family line is known for keeping a level head and staving off fear when
the chips were down. When you roll a success on a saving throw against an
emotion effect, you get a critical success instead.
Hillock Halfling
Accustomed to a calm life in the hills, your people find rest and relaxation
especially replenishing, particularly when indulging in creature comforts.
When you regain Hit Points overnight, add your level to the Hit Points
regained. When anyone uses the Medicine skill to Treat your Wounds, you can
eat a snack to add your level to the Hit Points you regain from their treatment.
Jinxed Halfling (Uncommon)
You were born with a strange blessing: bereft of the typical halfling luck,
you can instead manipulate the fortunes of others. You can never take the
Halfling Luck feat, and you gain the Jinx action.
Jinx [two-actions] (curse, occult) Frequency once per day; Effect You can curse another
creature with clumsiness. This curse has a range of 30 feet, and you must be able
to see your target. The target gets a Will saving throw against your class DC or
spell DC, whichever is higher.
Success The target is unaffected and temporarily immune for 24 hours.
Failure The target is clumsy 1 for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The target is clumsy 2 for 1 minute.
Nomadic Halfling
Your ancestors have traveled from place to place for generations, never content
to settle down. You gain two additional languages of your choice, chosen from
among the common and uncommon languages available to you, and every
time you take the Multilingual feat, you gain another new language.
Twilight Halfling
Your ancestors performed many secret acts under the concealing cover of dusk,
whether for good or ill, and over time they developed the ability to see in
twilight beyond even the usual keen sight of halflings. You gain low-light vision.
Wildwood Halfling
You hail from deep within a jungle or forest, and you’ve learned how to
use your small size to wriggle through undergrowth and other obstacles.
You ignore any difficult terrain caused by plants and fungi, such as bushes,
vines, and undergrowth.
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a halfling,
you select from among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
DISTRACTING SHADOWS FEAT 1
HALFLING
You have learned to remain hidden by using larger folk as a
distraction to avoid drawing attention to yourself. You can use
creatures that are at least one size larger than you (usually
Medium or larger) as cover for the Hide and Sneak actions,
though you still can’t use such creatures as cover for other
uses, such as the Take Cover action.
FOLKSY PATTER FEAT 1
HALFLING
You are adept at disguising coded messages as folksy idioms.
Using slang, jokes, halfling loanwords, and the like, you convey a
simple message consisting of three basic words (such as “Danger
assassin flee” or “Meet me moonrise”). Your intended listener
can attempt a DC 20 Perception check to discern the message.
This DC is reduced by 5 if the listener is a halfling or has Folksy
Patter, or by 10 if both apply. Eavesdroppers can also attempt
a Perception check against your Deception DC to discern your
meaning. Any bonuses or penalties to Perception checks to
Sense Motive apply to checks to understand Folksy Patter.
HALFLING LORE FEAT 1
HALFLING
You’ve dutifully learned how to keep your balance and how to
stick to the shadows where it’s safe, important skills passed
down through generations of halfling tradition. You gain the
trained proficiency rank in Acrobatics and Stealth. If you would
automatically become trained in one of those skills (from your
background or class, for example), you instead become trained
in a skill of your choice.
You also gain the Additional Lore general feat for
Halfling Lore.
HALFLING LUCK [free-action] FEAT 1
FORTUNE HALFLING
Frequency once per day
Trigger You fail a skill check or saving throw.
Your happy-go-lucky nature makes it seem like misfortune
avoids you, and to an extent, that might even be true. You can
reroll the triggering check, but you must use the new result,
even if it’s worse.
HALFLING WEAPON FAMILIARITY FEAT 1
HALFLING
You favor traditional halfling weapons, so you’ve learned how
to use them more effectively. You gain access to all uncommon
weapons with the halfling trait. You have familiarity with
weapons with the halfling trait plus the sling and shortsword—
for the purposes of proficiency, you treat any of these that
are martial weapons as simple weapons and any that are
advanced weapons as martial weapons.
At 5th level, whenever you get a critical hit with one of
these weapons, you get its critical specialization effect.

PRAIRIE RIDER FEAT 1
HALFLING
You grew up riding your clan’s shaggy ponies and riding dogs.
You become trained in Nature. If you would automatically become
trained in Nature (from your background or class, for example),
you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You also get
a +1 circumstance bonus to Command an Animal if the target is a
traditional halfling mount, such as a pony or riding dog.
SURE FEET FEAT 1
HALFLING
Whether keeping your balance or climbing, your feet easily find
purchase. If you roll a success on an Acrobatics check to Balance
or an Athletics check to Climb, you get a critical success instead.
You’re not off-guard when you attempt to Balance or Climb.
TITAN SLINGER FEAT 1
HALFLING
You have learned how to use your sling to fell enormous creatures.
When you hit on an attack with a weapon of the sling group
against a Large or larger creature, increase the size of the weapon
damage die by one step (details on increasing weapon damage die
sizes can be found on page 276).
UNFETTERED HALFLING FEAT 1
HALFLING
You were either pressed into indentured servitude or shackled
in a prison, but you’ve since escaped and have trained to ensure
you’ll never be caught again. Whenever you roll a success on a
check to Escape or a saving throw against an effect that would
impose the grabbed, immobilized, or restrained condition on you,
you get a critical success instead. Whenever a creature rolls a
failure on a check to Grapple you, it gets a critical failure instead.
WATCHFUL HALFLING FEAT 1
HALFLING
You pay close attention to the people around you, allowing you to
more easily notice when they act out of character. You gain a +2
circumstance bonus to Perception checks when using the Sense
Motive basic action to notice enchanted or possessed characters.
If you aren’t actively using Sense Motive on an enchanted or
possessed character, the GM rolls a secret check, without your
usual circumstance bonus, for you to potentially notice the
enchantment or possession anyway.
In addition to using it for skill checks, you can use the Aid
basic action to grant a bonus to another creature’s saving throw
or other check to overcome enchantment or possession. As usual
for Aid, you need to prepare by using an action on your turn to
encourage the creature to fight against the effect.
5TH LEVEL
CULTURAL ADAPTABILITY FEAT 5
HALFLING
During your adventures, you’ve honed your ability to adapt
to the culture of the predominant ancestry around you. You
gain the Adopted Ancestry general feat, and you also gain one
1st-level ancestry feat from the ancestry you chose for the
Adopted Ancestry feat.
STEP LIVELY [reaction] FEAT 5
HALFLING
Trigger A Large or larger enemy ends a move action adjacent
to you.
You are an expert at avoiding the lumbering footsteps of larger
creatures. You Step to another space adjacent to the enemy.
9TH LEVEL
DANCE UNDERFOOT FEAT 9
HALFLING
Prerequisites Step Lively
You dart under the legs of your enemies in combat. You can
end a successful Tumble Through action in a Large or larger
enemy’s space. Also, when using the Step Lively feat, you can
Step into the triggering enemy’s space. The enemy must have
limbs or otherwise leave you enough room for this maneuver,
as determined by the GM. For instance, you could share space
with a giant or dragon, but not an ooze.
GUIDING LUCK FEAT 9
HALFLING
Prerequisites Halfling Luck
Your luck guides you to look the right way and aim your blows
unerringly. You can use Halfling Luck twice per day: once
in response to its normal trigger, and once when you fail a
Perception check or attack roll instead of the normal trigger.
IRREPRESSIBLE FEAT 9
HALFLING
You are easily able to ward off attempts to play on your fears
and emotions. When you roll a success on a saving throw
against an emotion effect, you get a critical success instead.
If your heritage is gutsy halfling, when you roll a critical
failure on a saving throw against an emotion effect, you get
a failure instead.
UNHAMPERED PASSAGE FEAT 9
HALFLING
You won’t allow others to restrain you. You can cast unfettered
movement on yourself as a primal innate spell once per day.
13TH LEVEL
CEASELESS SHADOWS FEAT 13
HALFLING
Prerequisites Distracting Shadows
You excel at going unnoticed, especially among a crowd. You no
longer need to have cover or be concealed to Hide or Sneak. If
you would have lesser cover from a creature, you gain standard
cover instead and can Take Cover; if you would have standard
cover from a creature, you gain greater cover instead.

TOPPLING DANCE FEAT 13
HALFLING
Prerequisites Dance Underfoot
While sharing a creature’s space using Dance Underfoot, your
melee weapons and unarmed attacks gain the trip trait, but
only against the creature whose space you share. You can be
in the same space as a Large or larger prone creature, even if
it’s not your ally.
17TH LEVEL
SHADOW SELF FEAT 17
HALFLING
Prerequisites legendary Stealth
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You successfully use Stealth to Hide and become hidden
from all your current foes, or use Stealth to Sneak and become
undetected to all your current foes.
You slip from your adversaries’ notice and appear to be somewhere
else. You become invisible for 1 minute or until you take a hostile
action, whichever comes first. Choose a location within 10 feet of
you. Until your invisibility ends, you appear to be hidden in that
location to anyone trying to find you. If the searcher gets clear
evidence that you’re not there, they no longer think you’re hidden
there, but they don’t discover your actual location.
HUMAN
As unpredictable and varied as any of Golarion’s
peoples, humans have exceptional drive and the capacity
to endure and expand. Though many civilizations
thrived before humanity rose to prominence, humans
have built some of the greatest and the most terrible
societies throughout the course of history, and today
they are the most populous people in the realms around
the Inner Sea.
Humans’ ambition, versatility, and exceptional
potential have led to their status as the world’s
predominant ancestry. Their empires and nations are
vast, sprawling things, and their citizens carve names
for themselves with the strength of their sword arms
and the power of their spells. Humanity is diverse
and tumultuous, running the gamut from nomadic to

imperial, sinister to saintly. Many of them venture forth
to explore, to map the expanse of the multiverse, to
search for long-lost treasure, or to lead mighty armies
to conquer their neighbors—for no better reason than
because they can.
If you want a character who can be just about
anything, you should play a human.
You might...
• Strive to achieve greatness, either in your own right
or on behalf of a cause.
• Seek to understand your purpose in the world.
• Cherish your relationships with family and friends.
Others probably...
• Respect your flexibility, your adaptability, and—in
most cases—your open-mindedness.
• Distrust your intentions, fearing you seek only
power or wealth.
• Aren’t sure what to expect from you and are
hesitant to assume your intentions.
Physical Description
Humans’ physical characteristics are as varied as the
world’s climes. Humans have a wide variety of skin and
hair colors, body types, and facial features. Generally
speaking, their skin has a darker hue the closer to the
equator they or their ancestors lived.
Humans reach physical adulthood around the age of
15, though mental maturity occurs a few years later. A
typical human can live to be around 90 years old. Humans
have exceptionally mutable physical characteristics
compared to other ancestries, with greater variance in
height, weight, and other physical parameters.
Beliefs
Human variety also manifests in terms of their
governments, attitudes, and social norms. Though the
oldest of human cultures can trace their shared histories
thousands of years into the past, when compared to the
societies of the elves or dwarves, human civilizations
seem in a state of constant flux as empires fragment and
new kingdoms subsume the old.
Popular Edicts explore the world, strive for greatness, devote
yourself to a moral outlook
Popular Anathema waste what little time you have
Names
Unlike many ancestral cultures, which generally cleave
to specific traditions and shared histories, humanity’s
diversity has resulted in a near-infinite set of names. The
humans of northern tribes have different names than
those dwelling in southern nation-states. Humans throughout much of the
world speak Common (though some continents on Golarion have their own
regional common languages), yet their names are as varied as their beliefs
and appearances.
Ethnicities
A variety of human ethnic groups populates the continents within
Golarion’s Inner Sea region and in the lands beyond it. Human
characters can be of any ethnicity, regardless of what lands they
call home. Some examples of Golarion’s ethnicities are presented below.
Characters of human ethnicities in the Inner Sea region speak Common
(also known as Taldane), and some ethnicities grant access to an uncommon
regional language (page 89).
• Garundi span the nations along the southern shores of the Inner Sea.
• Keleshites trace their origins to the Keleshite Empire in the eastern deserts.
• Kellids live among the mountains and steppes of northern Avistan.
• Mwangi are spread across the vast continent of Garund.
• Shoanti make their homes in the harsh badlands of the Storval Plateau.
• Taldans occupy much of Avistan thanks to a fallen empire.
• Tians originally come from the far-off continent of Tian Xia.
• Ulfens reside in coastal towns of western Avistan.
• Varisians historically favored a nomadic life of roving caravans.
HIT POINTS
8
SIZE
Medium
SPEED
25 feet
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
Two free attribute boosts
LANGUAGES
Common
Additional languages equal to 1 + your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from the list of common
languages and any other languages to
which you have access (such as the
languages prevalent in your region).
TRAITS
Human
Humanoid
Human Heritages
Unlike other ancestries, humans don’t have significant physiological
differences defined by their lineage. Instead, their heritages reveal their
potential as a people and may reflect the traditional skills of their numerous
ethnicities. Choose one of the following human heritages at 1st level.
Skilled Human
Your ingenuity allows you to train in a wide variety of skills. You become
trained in one skill of your choice. At 5th level, you become an expert in the
chosen skill.
Versatile Human
Humanity’s versatility and ambition have fueled its ascendance to be the most
common ancestry in most nations throughout the world. Select a general feat
of your choice for which you meet the prerequisites (as with your ancestry
feat, you can select this general feat at any point during character creation).
Human Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a human,
you choose from among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
ADAPTED CANTRIP FEAT 1
HUMAN
Prerequisites spellcasting class feature
Through study of multiple magical traditions, you’ve altered a spell to suit your
spellcasting style. Choose one cantrip from a magical tradition other than your own.
If you prepare spells, you can choose this spell when you prepare your cantrips, in
addition to your other options. If you have a spell repertoire, replace one of your
cantrips known with the chosen spell. You can cast this cantrip as a spell of your
class’s tradition.
If you swap or retrain this cantrip later, you can choose its
replacement from the same alternate tradition or a different one.
COOPERATIVE NATURE FEAT 1
HUMAN
The short human life span lends perspective and has taught
you from a young age to set aside differences and work with
others to achieve greatness. You gain a +4 circumstance bonus
on checks to Aid.
GENERAL TRAINING FEAT 1
HUMAN
Your adaptability manifests in your mastery of a range of
useful abilities. You gain a 1st-level general feat. You must
meet the feat’s prerequisites, but if you select this feat during
character creation, you can select the feat later in the process
in order to determine which prerequisites you meet.
Special You can select this feat multiple times, choosing a
different feat each time.
HAUGHTY OBSTINACY FEAT 1
HUMAN
Your powerful ego makes it harder for others to order you
around. If you roll a success on a saving throw against a
mental effect that attempts to directly control your actions,
you critically succeed instead. If a creature rolls a failure on a
check to Coerce you using Intimidation, it gets a critical failure
instead (so it can’t try to Coerce you again for 1 week).
NATURAL AMBITION FEAT 1
HUMAN
You were raised to be ambitious and always reach for the
stars, leading you to progress quickly in your chosen field.
You gain a 1st-level class feat for your class. You must
meet the prerequisites, but you can select the feat later in
the character creation process in order to determine which
prerequisites you meet.
NATURAL SKILL FEAT 1
HUMAN
Your ingenuity allows you to learn a wide variety of skills. You
gain the trained proficiency rank in two skills of your choice.
UNCONVENTIONAL WEAPONRY FEAT 1
HUMAN
You’ve familiarized yourself with a particular weapon,
potentially from another ancestry or culture. Choose an
uncommon simple or martial weapon with a trait corresponding
to an ancestry (such as dwarf, goblin, or orc) or that is common
in another culture. You gain access to that weapon, and for the
purpose of proficiency, you treat it as a simple weapon.
If you are trained in all martial weapons, you can instead
choose an uncommon advanced weapon that has an ancestry’s
trait or is common in another culture. You gain access to
that weapon and have familiarity with that weapon. For the
purpose of proficiency, you treat it as a martial weapon.

5TH LEVEL
ADAPTIVE ADEPT FEAT 5
HUMAN
Prerequisites Adapted Cantrip, can cast 3rd-rank spells
You’ve continued adapting your magic to blend your class’s
tradition with your adapted tradition. Choose a cantrip or
1st-rank spell from the same magical tradition as your cantrip
from Adapted Cantrip. You gain that spell, adding it to your
spell options just like the cantrip from Adapted Cantrip. You
can cast this spell as a spell of your class’s magical tradition.
If you choose a 1st-rank spell, you don’t gain access to the
heightened versions of that spell, meaning you can’t prepare
them if you prepare spells and you can’t learn them or select
the spell as a signature spell if you have a spell repertoire.
CLEVER IMPROVISER FEAT 5
HUMAN
You’ve learned how to handle situations when you’re out of
your depth. You gain the Untrained Improvisation general feat.
In addition, you can attempt skill actions that normally require
you to be trained, even if you are untrained.
SENSE ALLIES FEAT 5
HUMAN
Like many humans raised in a close-knit community, you
have always been strongly attuned to the presence of others.
Willing allies that you are aware of within 60 feet that would
otherwise be undetected by you are instead hidden from you.
The flat check for you to target willing allies within 60 feet
that are hidden from you is 5 instead of 11.
9TH LEVEL
COOPERATIVE SOUL FEAT 9
HUMAN
You have developed a soul-deep bond with your comrades and
maintain an even greater degree of cooperation with them. If
you are at least an expert in the skill you are Aiding, when you
roll a failure or critical failure to Aid a skill check, you get a
success instead.
GROUP AID FEAT 9
HUMAN
Your upbringing emphasized teamwork, and helping your
allies comes naturally to you. After you Aid an ally at a skill
check that doesn’t have the attack trait, you can also Aid any
other ally who attempts the same skill check for the same
purpose that round. You do so as a free action rather than
a reaction.
The preparation you did to help must still apply to
the other allies, and you can Aid each ally only once. For
example, if you helped lift up an ally to Aid them on an
Athletics check to scale a wall, you could keep the same
posture to give a boost to other allies attempting to scale
the wall in the same round.
HARDY TRAVELER FEAT 9
HUMAN
There’s no journey too far or burden too heavy when you
have friends at your side or hope within your heart. Increase
your maximum and encumbered Bulk limits by 1. In addition,
you gain a +10-foot circumstance bonus to your Speed during
overland travel.
INCREDIBLE IMPROVISATION [free-action] FEAT 9
HUMAN
Frequency once per day
Trigger You attempt a check using a skill you’re untrained in.
A stroke of brilliance gives you a major advantage with a skill
despite your inexperience. Gain a +4 circumstance bonus to
the triggering skill check.
MULTITALENTED FEAT 9
HUMAN
You’ve learned to split your focus between multiple classes
with ease. You gain a 2nd-level multiclass dedication feat (for
more about multiclass archetypes, see page 215), even if you
normally couldn’t take another dedication feat until you take
more feats from your current archetype.
If you have the aiuvarin versatile heritage (page 82), you
don’t need to meet the feat’s ability modifier prerequisites.
13TH LEVEL
ADVANCED GENERAL TRAINING FEAT 13
HUMAN
Over the long course of your adventuring
life, your adaptability has let you pick up
numerous useful abilities. You gain a general
feat of 7th level or lower. You must meet the
feat’s prerequisites.
Special You can select this feat multiple times,
choosing a different feat each time.
BOUNCE BACK [free-action] FEAT 13
HUMAN
Frequency once per day
Trigger You lose the dying condition.
You recover from near-death experiences with astounding
resilience. Don’t increase the value of your wounded condition
due to losing the dying condition.
STUBBORN PERSISTENCE FEAT 13
HUMAN
Humans are renowned for their ability to persist through
the most grueling of trials that would leave others ready to
drop. When you would become fatigued, attempt a DC 17
flat check. On a success, you aren’t fatigued. If the fatigued
condition has an underlying cause that you don’t address,
such as lack of rest, you must attempt the check again at an
interval determined by the GM until you fail the flat check or
address the underlying cause.

17TH LEVEL
HEROIC PRESENCE [one-action] FEAT 17
EMOTION HUMAN MENTAL
Frequency once per day
The blood of heroes courses through your veins, and you
inspire your allies to dig deep and find a new level of resolve.
You grant up to 10 willing creatures within 30 feet the
effects of a 6th-rank zealous conviction, though the effect
automatically ends on a target if you give that target a
command they would normally find repugnant. This action
has the auditory trait or visual trait, depending on how you
inspire your allies.
LESHY
Leshies are immortal spirits of nature temporarily granted
physical forms. As guardians and emissaries of the
environment, leshies are “born” when a skilled druid or
other master of primal magic conducts a ritual to create
a suitable vessel, and then a spirit chooses that vessel to
be their temporary home. Leshies are self-sufficient from
the moment the ritual ends, though it isn’t uncommon
for leshies to maintain lifelong bonds with their creators.
Many leshies relish the opportunity to interact with the
physical world. While most leshy spirits are ancient, they
rarely recall past lifetimes and see their new life as a chance
to experience the wonders of the world once more.
If you want to play a character who is curious and
connected to nature, you should play a leshy.

You might...
• Act as a traveling agent for natural guardians who
are unable to leave their territories.
• Encourage civilizations to cooperate with nature and
build their cities in ecologically friendly ways.
Others probably...
• Think you are a curiosity due to your spiritual origins.
• Assume you know only about nature and are
unfamiliar with civilization and society.
Physical Description
Leshies are as varied as the material used to create their
vessels, usually appearing as a bizarre mishmash of various
plants or fungi. Their bodies are vaguely humanoid in
shape, with numerous characteristics of the plant or fungus
from which they were made. A typical leshy is about 3 feet
tall. Leshies begin their lives as adults and don’t age.
Society
To most leshies, the concept of family is not a matter
of birth, but rather determined by bonds of loyalty and
friendship. Leshies are dedicated allies, but they have little
tolerance for those who would despoil nature. As much as
they are happy to accept someone who earns their trust
into their family, they expect family members to look out
for them and their natural wards in return.
Leshies are grouped into categories akin to ethnicities,
but these are not connected to physical features; rather,
they represent broad categories of characteristics of their
spirits. Certain spirits are more likely to gravitate toward
particular physical bodies, though this predisposition is
far from absolute. Leshies’ genders are determined by the
spirits that inhabit their bodies. Some leshies are exclusively
male or female, while many consider themselves both.
Others, particularly fungus leshies, tend toward far more
complex expressions of gender, or eschew the concept
entirely. Leshies choose and change their names multiple
times throughout their lives.
Sample Names: Scarlet in Summer, Verdant Taleweaver,
Lurking Hunter, Masterful Sun Drinker, Noon Sky
Evening Song, Snowy Pine Branch, Cascading Rapids
Beliefs
Leshies’ beliefs generally focus on the natural world.
Those with a philosophical bent lean toward the Green
Faith, and Gozreh is the most popular deity among
faithful leshies. Some leshies also venerate green men,
powerful spirits of nature.
Popular Edicts experience the physical world, form a family
through loyalty and trust, protect parts of nature you embody
Popular Anathema embrace unnatural magic or influences
HIT POINTS
8
SIZE
Small
SPEED
25 feet
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
Constitution
Wisdom
Free
ATTRIBUTE FLAW
Intelligence
LANGUAGES
Common
Fey
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Draconic, Elven, Gnomish,
Goblin, Halfling, Sakvroth, and any
other languages to which you have
access (such as the languages prevalent
in your region).
TRAITS
Leshy
Plant
LOW-LIGHT VISION
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, and you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
PLANT NOURISHMENT
You gain nourishment in the same way
that the plants or fungi that match
your body type normally do, through
some combination of photosynthesis,
absorbing minerals with your roots,
or scavenging decaying matter. You
typically do not need to pay for food.
If you normally rely on photosynthesis
and go without sunlight for 1 week,
you begin to starve. You can derive
nourishment from specially formulated
bottles of sunlight instead of natural
sunlight, but these bottles cost 10
times as much as standard rations (or
40 sp).
Leshy Heritages
A leshy’s heritage represents the benefits they gain from their body. Choose
one of the following leshy heritages at 1st level.
Cactus Leshy
Spines cover your body. You gain a spine unarmed attack that deals 1d6
piercing damage. Your spines are in the brawling group and have the finesse
and unarmed traits.
Fruit Leshy
Your body continually produces small fruits imbued with primal magic. At
dawn each day, a new fruit ripens. You or an ally can remove this fruit as
an Interact action. If a living creature that can derive sustenance from fruit
consumes it as an Interact action within the next hour, they regain 1d8 Hit
Points, plus an additional 1d8 Hit Points for every 2 of your levels beyond
1st. This effect has the healing and vitality traits.
Fungus Leshy
Your body was made from fungi that grows in the shade of caves and trees,
and you are at home in dark caverns and warrens. You gain darkvision. You
lose the plant trait and gain the fungus trait.
Gourd Leshy
You have a large gourd for a skull, and since you don’t have a physical brain,
you can use the space inside your head. You can store a collection of up to 1
Bulk of objects within your head. The DC of checks to Steal objects from inside
your head increases by 4. Additionally, if you store only one object within your
head, you can draw it effortlessly into your hand as part of another action to
use the object. Drawing the item grants this other action the manipulate trait.
Leaf Leshy
Your body is made mostly from natural foliage, and like a leaf tumbling
from a tree, you land from falls with particular grace. You take no damage
from falling, regardless of the distance you fall.
Lotus Leshy
You effortlessly float on the surface of water. You can walk on the surface of
still water and other non-damaging liquids, moving at half your normal Speed.
You can also attempt to Balance to move across the surface of flowing water,
using the DC of a Swim check to move through the water. When you do this,
you can’t move faster than half your Speed, and if you fail or critically fail, you
fall into the water rather than the normal effects.
Root Leshy
Your body is made from hardy roots that attach you firmly to the ground.
You gain 10 Hit Points from your ancestry instead of 8. You can go without
sunlight for 2 weeks before you begin to starve. You gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to your Fortitude or Reflex DC against attempts to Reposition, Shove,
or Trip you. This bonus also applies to saving throws against spells or effects
that attempt to move you or knock you prone.
Seaweed Leshy
Your body is made from woven seaweed, and you’re just as comfortable
underwater as on land. You gain a swim Speed of 20 feet, and you can
always breathe underwater. However, your land Speed is reduced by 5 feet
(to 20 feet for most seaweed leshies).
Vine Leshy
Your prehensile vines grant you unmatched skill at
climbing. You do not need to have any hands free to
Climb. Additionally, if you roll a success on an Athletics
check to Climb, you get a critical success instead.
Leshy Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a leshy, you select from
among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
GRASPING REACH FEAT 1
LESHY
You can extend a tangle of vines or tendrils to support your
arms and extend your reach. When you wield a melee weapon
that requires two hands, doesn’t have reach, and deals at least
1d6 damage, you can change between a typical two-handed
grip and an extended two-handed grasp using an Interact
action. Weapons wielded in your extended grasp gain reach
of 10 feet. This grasp is less stable and powerful than a typical
grip, reducing the weapon’s damage die by 1 step.
HARMLESSLY CUTE FEAT 1
LESHY
Your size and demeanor make it easy for you to convince
others that you mean no harm. You gain the Shameless
Request skill feat as a bonus feat. Additionally, you gain a
+1 circumstance bonus to initiative checks when you roll
Deception for initiative.
LESHY LORE FEAT 1
LESHY
You deeply understand your people’s cultural traditions
and innate strengths. You gain the trained proficiency rank
in Nature and Stealth. If you would automatically become
trained in one of those skills (from your background or class,
for example), you instead become trained in a skill of your
choice.
You also gain the Additional Lore general feat for Leshy
Lore.
LESHY SUPERSTITION [reaction] FEAT 1
LESHY
Trigger You attempt a saving throw against a spell or magical
effect, but haven’t rolled yet.
You notice spirits that inhabit objects, learning which bring
good fortune and which are unlucky. You focus on the power
of a lucky object, granting you a +1 circumstance bonus to
your saving throw against the triggering effect.
SEEDPOD FEAT 1
LESHY
Your body produces a nearly endless supply of hard seedpods.

You gain a seedpod ranged unarmed attack with a range
increment of 30 feet that deals 1d4 bludgeoning damage.
On a critical hit, a seedpod bursts, issuing forth a tangle of
vegetation that imposes a –10-foot circumstance penalty on
the target’s Speed until the start of your next turn. Seedpods
do not add critical specialization effects.
SHADOW OF THE WILDS FEAT 1
LESHY
It’s difficult to notice your passage through wild areas. As
long as you’re not in an urban environment, you’re always
considered to be Covering Tracks, even if you chose a different
activity in exploration mode.
UNDAUNTED FEAT 1
LESHY
Your spirit has endured many challenges over its long
existence. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saves against
emotion effects. If you roll a success on a saving throw against
an emotion effect, you get a critical success instead.
5TH LEVEL
ANCHORING ROOTS FEAT 5
LESHY
Small roots sprout from your feet, steadying you as you move.
You gain the Steady Balance skill feat, even if you aren’t
trained in Acrobatics, and you can use the Anchor action.
Anchor [one-action] Requirements You’re on a solid surface; Effect
You send your roots into or across the ground, making
it harder for you to stumble. Until you move, you gain a
+2 circumstance bonus to your Fortitude or Reflex DC
against attempts to Reposition, Shove, or Trip you (or a
+4 circumstance bonus if you’re a root leshy). This bonus
also applies to saving throws against spells or effects that
attempt to move you or knock you prone. If an effect forces
you to move, you move only half the normal distance, as
some of the effort goes to tearing loose the roots.
LESHY GLIDE [one-action] FEAT 5
LESHY
Prerequisites leaf leshy heritage or Cat Fall skill feat
Using your own leaves, you can control your descent. You
glide slowly toward the ground, 5 feet down and up to 25 feet
forward through the air. As long as you spend at least 1 action
gliding each round and have not yet reached the ground, you
remain in the air at the end of your turn.
RITUAL REVERSION [two-actions] FEAT 5
LESHY POLYMORPH PRIMAL
You can temporarily revert to a less conspicuous form without
diminishing your senses. You take the form of an ordinary
specimen of the type of plant or fungus that most closely
resembles you, reverting to your body’s appearance just
before your spirit joined with it. This otherwise has the effects
of one with plants, except that your size remains Small.
SPEAK WITH KINDRED FEAT 5
LESHY
You have a connection with creatures that share your
physiology. You can ask questions of, receive answers from,
and use the Diplomacy skill with plants and fungi. You gain
a +2 circumstance bonus to Diplomacy checks with plants or
fungi of your kind. Generally, fungus leshies get this bonus
with mushrooms and fungi; gourd leshies with gourds, melons,
and similar fruiting plants; leaf leshies with deciduous trees;
and vine leshies with vines and climbing plants.
9TH LEVEL
BARK AND TENDRIL FEAT 9
LESHY
You wield primal magic. You can cast entangling flora and
oaken resilience as 2nd-rank primal innate spells once per
day each.
LUCKY KEEPSAKE FEAT 9
LESHY
Prerequisites Leshy Superstition
You have a keepsake that grants you luck. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to saves against spells and magical effects
at all times, not just when you use Leshy Superstition. If you
lose the keepsake, you lose the bonus until you designate a
new keepsake, typically over the course of a week.
SOLAR REJUVENATION FEAT 9
LESHY
If you rest outdoors for 10 minutes during the day, you regain
Hit Points equal to your Constitution modifier × half your level.
You gain this benefit in addition to any healing from Treat
Wounds. Leshies whose plant nourishment does not rely on
photosynthesis require a similarly suitable environment. For
example, fungus leshies need dark, damp environments and
a pile of decaying plant matter.
THORNED SEEDPOD FEAT 9
LESHY
Prerequisites Seedpod
When your seedpods strike a felling blow, they
burst into viciously thorny vines. When you
critically succeed at a seedpod Strike, vines
twist and stab your foe, dealing 1d4 persistent
piercing damage.
13TH LEVEL
CALL OF THE GREEN MAN FEAT 13
LESHY
You can call forth nearby nature spirits to
augment your body. Once per day, you can cast
plant form as a 5th-rank primal innate spell.
When you reach 17th level, you can heighten the
spell to 6th rank when you cast it.

CLOAK OF POISON [two-actions] FEAT 13
LESHY POISON
Frequency once per day
You secrete a cloak of concentrated poison that harms any
who dare attack you. For 1 minute, any creature that touches
you or damages you with an unarmed attack or melee weapon
without the reach trait takes 3d6 poison damage.
17TH LEVEL
FLOURISH AND RUIN FEAT 17
LESHY
You can call upon the vital essence of your spirit to restore
life to your allies and call forth vines to ensnare and bludgeon
your foes. You can cast field of life and tangling creepers as
6th-rank primal innate spells once per day each.
REGROWTH FEAT 17
LESHY
Your command over your vital essence allows you or an ally to
recover from grievous wounds. You can cast regenerate as a
7th-rank primal innate spell once per day.
ORC
Orcs are forged in the fires of violence and conflict, often
from the moment they are born. As they live lives that
are frequently cut brutally short, orcs revel in testing
their strength against worthy foes, often by challenging
a higher-ranking member of their community for
dominance. Orcs often struggle to gain acceptance
among other communities, who frequently see them
as brutes. Those who earn the loyalty of an orc friend,
however, soon learn that an orc’s fidelity and honesty are
unparalleled. Orc culture teaches that they are shaped by
the challenges they survive, and the most worthy survive
the most hardships. Orcs who attain both a long life and
great triumphs command immense respect.
If you want a character who is hardy, fearsome, and

excels at feats of physical prowess, you should play an orc.
You might...
• Eagerly meet any chance to prove your strength in a
physical contest.
• View dying in glorious combat as preferable to a
mundane death from old age or illness.
Others probably...
• See you as violent or lacking in discipline.
• Admire your forthrightness and blunt honesty.
Physical Description
Orcs are tall and powerfully built, with long arms and
stocky legs. Many orcs top 7 feet in height, though they
tend to adopt broad, almost bow-legged stances and
slouch forward at the shoulders. Orcs have rough
skin, thick bones, and rock-hard muscles, making
them suited to war and other physically demanding
tasks. Orc skin color is typically some shade of
green, though some orcs have other skin colors
that reflect adaptations to their environments.
Orcs consider powerful builds, heavily scarred
skin, large tusks, and tattoos attractive, regardless of
gender. Orcs reach physical adulthood around the age
of 17, with many orcs living to be up to 60 years old.
Society
Most orc communities—known as holds—define
themselves through two things: pain and glory. Each
earns respect in near equal measure, so long as the
pain is borne with stoicism. An orc with many scars
who walks uncomplaining with a broken leg draws as
much admiration as one who wins a great victory on
the battlefield. Additionally, power defines the dynamics
among families and holds. Weaker orcs work at the
behest of the strong, with power constantly shifting
between orcs that prove their might. Orcs tend to share
in familial duties, raising children as a community and
sharing responsibilities among the entire hold.
Sample Names: Arkus, Durra, Grask, Grillgiss, Krugga,
Mahja, Murdut, Ollak, Onyat, Thurk, Uirch, Unach
Beliefs
A common orc saying is “you are the scars that shape
you.” Violent, chaotic lives in violent, chaotic lands
mean that most orcs tend to expect and accept violence.
Lamashtu, and Rovagug are commonly worshiped
among more war-minded orc communities, while less
violent holds worship gods like Sarenrae, whose tenets
of fire, redemption, and glory all hold some appeal to
orc sensibilities.
While there are orc deities, their worship is surprisingly uncommon
among orcs. Orcs believe that if a creature has a face and a name, it can
be killed, and so their own deities are often targets, rather than objects of
reverence. Some orc holds teach that the greatest members of the hold can
earn a chance to challenge the orc deities for a place amid the pantheon.
Popular Edicts become even stronger, share knowledge you won through pain,
destroy the undead
Popular Anathema accept defeat without proof of strength, reshape or reanimate a
creature into something lesser
HIT POINTS
10
SIZE
Medium
SPEED
25 feet
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
Two free attribute boosts
LANGUAGES
Common
Orcish
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Goblin, Jotun, Petran,
Sakvroth, and any other languages to
which you have access (such as the
languages prevalent in your region).
TRAITS
Orc
Humanoid
DARKVISION
You can see in darkness and dim light
just as well as you can see in bright
light, though your vision in darkness is
in black and white.
Orc Heritages
Orcs have a long history on the surface of the world, and a far longer history
underground. Their hardy physiques and demanding lifestyles have led to
various adaptations. Choose one of the following orc heritages at 1st level.
Badlands Orc
You come from sun-scorched badlands, where long legs and an ability to
withstand the elements helped you thrive. You can Hustle twice as long while
exploring before you have to stop, and you treat environmental heat effects
as if they were one step less extreme (incredible heat becomes extreme,
extreme heat becomes severe, and so on).
Battle-Ready Orc
You descend from a line of terrifying battlefield commanders. You become
trained in Intimidation, and you gain the Intimidating Glare skill feat.
Deep Orc
Your calloused hands and red eyes speak to a life spent in the deep darkness
of mountain caverns, where you learned to battle on rocky cliffs and
survive with minimal resources. You gain the Terrain Expertise skill feat for
underground terrain and the Combat Climber skill feat.
Grave Orc
You were exposed to powerful necromantic energies that should have
killed you—but you survived. Your skin is cold, clammy, and gray. You gain
resistance to void damage equal to half your level (minimum 1). You also
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws against effects with the death
or void trait.
Hold-Scarred Orc
You are part of an orc community that participates in ritual scarification
or tattooing. The marks on your skin show your exceptional hardiness and
vitality. You gain 12 Hit Points from your ancestry instead of 10. You also
gain the Diehard feat.
Rainfall Orc
You were born in a rain forest with only tangles of trees providing protection
from torrential rainstorms and flash floods. You’ve learned to move adeptly
through jungle terrain and resist the various ailments common in humid
environs. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Athletics checks to Climb or
Swim and a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws against diseases.
Winter Orc
Your ancestors survived in cold climates. You become trained in Survival,
and you treat environmental cold effects as if they were one step less extreme
(incredible cold becomes extreme, extreme cold becomes severe, and so on).
Orc Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th level). As an orc, you can select from
among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
BEAST TRAINER FEAT 1
ORC
You have an impressive innate ability to tame and command
ferocious beasts. You become trained in the Nature skill and
gain your choice of the Pet general feat or the Train Animal
skill feat.
IRON FISTS FEAT 1
ORC
Your fists have been forged by battle, your naturally tough
skin and dense bone further hardened by conflict. Your fist
unarmed attacks no longer have the nonlethal trait and gain
the shove weapon trait.
ORC FEROCITY [reaction] FEAT 1
ORC
Frequency once per day
Trigger You would be reduced to 0 Hit Points but not
immediately killed.
Fierceness in battle runs through your blood, and you refuse
to fall from your injuries no matter how terrible they may be.
You avoid being knocked out and remain at 1 Hit Point, and
your wounded condition increases by 1.
ORC LORE FEAT 1
ORC
The hold elders taught you your people’s histories, told tales
of great athletic feats, and shared with you the hardships your
ancestors endured so that you can pass this wisdom down
to future generations. You become trained in Athletics and
Survival. If you would automatically become trained in one of
those skills (from your background or class, for example), you
instead become trained in a skill of your choice.
You also gain the Additional Lore general feat for Orc Lore.
ORC SUPERSTITION [reaction] FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE ORC
Trigger You attempt a saving throw against a spell or magical
effect, and have not yet rolled.
You defend yourself against magic by relying on techniques
derived from orc cultural superstitions. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to your saving throw against the
triggering spell or magical effect.
HOLD MARK FEAT 1
ORC
You bear scars or tattoos enhanced by the mark of your
community’s prowess. When you select this feat, choose one

of the options from the below table. You are trained in the
listed skill and gain a +1 status bonus to saves against spells
from the listed tradition. You gain a large brand or tattoo in the
shape of the chosen emblem or a similar concept (for example,
the Burning Sun could be a torch, sun, volcano, or other fiery
symbol, while the Empty Hand could be a fist or claw).
Hold Mark Emblem Skill Tradition
Burning Sun Diplomacy Arcane
Death’s Head Survival Primal
Defiled Corpse Religion Divine
Empty Hand Intimidation Occult
ORC WEAPON FAMILIARITY FEAT 1
ORC
In combat, you favor the brutal weapons that are traditional for
your orc ancestors. You gain access to all uncommon weapons
with the orc trait. You have familiarity with weapons with the
orc trait plus the falchion and greataxe—for the purposes of
proficiency, you treat any of these that are martial weapons
as simple weapons and any that are advanced weapons as
martial weapons.
At 5th level, whenever you get a critical hit with one of
these weapons, you get its critical specialization effect.
TUSKS FEAT 1
ORC
You have particularly long, jagged tusks perfect for tearing
meat from bone. You gain a tusks unarmed attack that deals
1d6 piercing damage. Your tusks are in the brawling group and
have the finesse and unarmed traits.
Special You can take this feat only at 1st level, and you can’t
retrain into this feat. You can retrain out of this feat only
through drastic measures, such as breaking, filing, or
extracting your tusks.
5TH LEVEL
ATHLETIC MIGHT FEAT 5
ORC
Surviving in hostile terrain has given you a great talent for
mobility. Whenever you roll a success on an Athletics check to
Climb or Swim, you get a critical success instead.
BLOODY BLOWS FEAT 5
ORC
Your lethal unarmed attacks leave bloody gouges or cause
severe internal bleeding. When you critically hit with a Strike
using an unarmed attack that isn’t nonlethal, the target takes
1d4 persistent bleed damage. This can be because you’re
taking the penalty to use a fist for a lethal attack or because
you have an unarmed attack without the nonlethal trait due to
Tusks or a similar ability.
DEFY DEATH FEAT 5
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Ferocity
You’re exceptionally difficult to kill. The DC of your recovery
checks is equal to 9 + your dying value, or 8 + your dying value
if you have the Toughness general feat. In addition, whenever
someone returns you to life using magic that would normally
leave you debilitated for a week (such as raise dead or the
resurrect ritual), you don’t suffer that condition.
SCAR-THICK SKIN FEAT 5
ORC
Glorious, storied scars cover and protect much of your body,
girding you in fleshly armor that resists any wound weaker
than those you have already survived. Your DC on flat checks
to end persistent bleed damage is reduced from 15 to 10, or
from 10 to 5 after receiving especially appropriate assistance.
9TH LEVEL
PERVASIVE SUPERSTITION FEAT 9
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Superstition
You steep yourself in superstition and practice ancient orc
mental exercises for shrugging off the effects of magic. You
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws against spells
and magical effects at all times.
UNDYING FEROCITY FEAT 9
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Ferocity
You resist death’s clutches with supernatural vigor, daring
death to claim you while promising that any such attempt will
surely fail. When you use Orc Ferocity, you gain temporary Hit
Points equal to your level.
13TH LEVEL
INCREDIBLE FEROCITY FEAT 13
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Ferocity
Given time to collect yourself after a near-death scrape,
you can rebuild your ferocity and withstand additional
finishing blows. You can use Orc Ferocity with a frequency
of once per hour, rather than once per day.
FEROCIOUS BEASTS FEAT 13
ORC
Prerequisites animal companion, Pet, or Bonded Animal; Orc
Ferocity
Since ancient times, the mightiest orc beast tamers would
draw out the true fighting spirit of their companion beasts by
feeding the creatures a draft incorporating the orc’s own blood.
All animal companions, pets, familiars, and bonded animals
you have gain the Orc Ferocity feat, and gain one reaction
per round they can use only for Orc Ferocity. If you have the
Undying Ferocity ancestry feat, all animal companions, pets,
familiars, and bonded animals you have also gain the benefits
of that feat when using the Orc Ferocity reaction.

SPELL DEVOURER FEAT 13
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Superstition
You don’t just resist magic; you devour it. Whenever you
succeed at a saving throw against a spell or magical effect,
you gain temporary Hit Points equal to double the spell’s rank,
or equal to the level if the magical effect isn’t a spell. These
temporary Hit Points last until the end of your next turn.
17TH LEVEL
RAMPAGING FEROCITY [free-action] FEAT 17
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Ferocity
Trigger You use Orc Ferocity.
You lash out viciously even as you fend off death. Make a single
melee Strike. If this Strike brings a foe to 0 Hit Points, this
activation of Orc Ferocity doesn’t count against its frequency.
VERSATILE HERITAGES
The peoples of Golarion are many, and they have a long history of intermingling or dabbling
with forces capable of altering the very fabric of a mortal body or soul. The children born to
such parents might have traits from each of their parents or physiological manifestations of
the forces their ancestors were influenced by, manifesting as a specific heritage.
The most common of these by far are the aiuvarin and
dromaar versatile heritages, usually born to a human
parent on one side and either an elf or orc parent on
the other. Other individuals are born under far stranger
circumstances, such as having a parent who was affected
by monstrous, undead, or extraplanar energies. As
these circumstances aren’t unique to a single ancestry,
these heritages—called versatile heritages—are likewise
shared by many ancestries.
The peoples of Golarion are many, and they have a long history of intermingling or dabbling
with forces capable of altering the very fabric of a mortal body or soul. The children born to
such parents might have traits from each of their parents or physiological manifestations of
the forces their ancestors were influenced by, manifesting as a specific heritage.
VERSATILE HERITAGES

Golarion is home to a variety of versatile heritages.
Some are born to unusual creatures or arise through
specific mundane or supernatural circumstances.
Many, however, result from an infusion of extraplanar
energy, whether through direct parentage, more distant
ancestors, or simply direct exposure to the quintessence
of that plane. These individuals are known as planar
scions.
Because the circumstances that give rise to versatile
heritages aren’t limited to a single ancestry, a versatile
heritage can be chosen by a character of nearly any
ancestry. Some versatile heritages are more common
among some ancestries than others, and some might list
additional restrictions specific to that heritage. Your GM
may place other restrictions on which ancestries can use
a given versatile heritage based on the story and setting.
Unlimited Possibilities!
Though a character can have only one heritage and one
lineage feat, the possible permutations of a character’s
background and family tree are virtually unlimited. An
aiuvarin character might still have a changeling parent
whose nature is visible in the coloration of their eyes
even if they don’t have access to changeling ancestry
feats, and a pitborn dwarf might very well have an
ancestor with fey influences on their bloodline, reflected
with a fey muse or patron gained through their class
alongside their ancestral fiendishness.
Playing a Versatile
Heritage
To play a character with a versatile heritage, first select
your ancestry, just like you would for any character.
You gain Hit Points, size, Speed, attribute boosts and
attribute flaws, languages, traits, and other abilities from
that ancestry. Then, instead of choosing a heritage from
those normally available to that ancestry, apply your
chosen versatile heritage. You gain all the features from
your versatile heritage, some of which might modify or
replace statistics, abilities, or traits from your ancestry.
Since a versatile heritage is a heritage, you can have
only one, and you can’t have any other heritage in
addition to your versatile heritage.
Sometimes a versatile heritage might give you an
ability that conflicts with an ability from your ancestry.
In these cases, you choose which of the conflicting
abilities your character has.
When selecting ancestry feats, you can choose from
those available to your ancestry as well as those specific
to your versatile heritage.
Lineage Feats
Some ancestry feats within a versatile heritage have the
lineage trait. These feats specify a physiological lineage
your character has—such as the type of hag that birthed
a changeling character, or the type of extraplanar entity
that influenced a nephilim’s birth. You can have only one
lineage feat; you can select such a feat only at 1st level,
and you can’t retrain into or out of this feat.
In This Book
This book includes the rules for three kinds of versatile
heritages.
Changeling
Children of the malevolent, magical creatures known as
hags, changelings share some of their mothers’ abilities,
such as sharp claws and occult magic. Many changelings
experience or dread the psychic summons of their hag
mothers, known as the Call, urging them to seek out
their mothers so they might be transformed into
hags themselves.
Changeling lineages affect the appearance
of one of the changeling’s eyes, and are as
follows: brine may for the child of a sea hag,
callow may for a sweet hag, dream may for
a cuckoo hag, and slag may for an iron hag.
Planar Scions: Nephilim
Life is present everywhere across the planes
of the Multiverse, and the intermingling of mortals
from the Universe with extraplanar energy is no rare
thing. Whether their origins are from a direct physical
relationship between a mortal and an extraplanar
being or from some other infusion of extraplanar
energy, mortals who carry the power of another plane
are known as planar scions. There are numerous types
of planar scions, just as there are countless types of
beings across the planes whose power might be shared
with a mortal. This book focuses on nephilim, planar
scions from planes strongly associated with concepts of
good, evil, order, or dissolution, and presents lineages
associated with fiendish and celestial beings.
Nephilim are planar scions—mortals influenced by
planes beyond the Universe—whose bodies or spirits
have been influenced by energies from an outer plane,
often one strongly associated with mortal religions or
philosophies, like Elysium or the Outer Rifts. Some
nephilim are even born with seemingly contradictory
influences, displaying traits of both celestials and fiends.
The angelkin, lawbringers, and musetouched lineages
each represent different aspects of the celestial planes,
while the grimspawn, hellspawn, and pitborn lineages
represent beings with fiendish bloodlines or influences.

Mixed Ancestry Heritages
Golarion has numerous metropolises where people
from a wide variety of ancestries intermingle. Moreover,
adventurers of all backgrounds and ancestries often
find themselves thrust together and discover that from
adversity can come common ground, and even love. As
a result, the world is full of people whose bloodline can
be traced to at least two different ancestries. The most
common examples of this are aiuvarins and dromaars,
who have elf and orc ancestors respectively. While all
known dromaars and aiuvarins in the Inner Sea share
human as the other part of their origin, it’s possible that
other combinations could exist.
This section also describes how to create a custom
mixed ancestry heritage when creating your own world.
CHANGELING
Tales of children stolen away and replaced by monsters
exist across countless cultures—but the true monsters are
the hags who bring these strange children into the world,
either directly as their birth parents or indirectly when
strange magic from their coven rituals affects babies in
nearby villages. Such a child faces no end of challenges,
often beginning life as an abandoned or orphaned outsider.
Though a changeling generally resembles an ordinary
member of their ancestry, their distinctive eyes—each a
different color—set them apart. One of their eyes matches
that of their father’s lineage, while the other matches the

color of their hag mother’s, often in an unnatural shade
such as violet or vivid green. Not everyone with differently
colored eyes is a changeling, but this manifestation of
changeling heritage makes it difficult for them to hide
their nature and can lead to banishment. As they come of
age, they manifest other characteristics from their mother,
including supernatural abilities. Darkvision, clawlike
fingernails, and innate magic are the most common.
Changelings can be any gender, but women in particular
are vulnerable to the Call, a psychic influence that urges
them to abandon their mortal life, join the hag’s coven,
and eventually become a hag themselves. Changelings who
understand their heritage often fear the Call and work to
resist its pull. Those who remain ignorant of their origin
may find themselves subject to a terrible compulsion
without knowing why.
You Might...
• Cherish and protect those friends and family who
accept you as you are.
• Seek to better understand your hag mother and the
gifts she gave you, for good or ill, or distance yourself
from your heritage.
• Fear the day you hear the Call and worry you might
not be able to resist—or perhaps you already fight to
resist it every day.
Others Probably...
• Assume you practice occult or primal magic, or that
you participate in a coven.
• Worry that you might secretly be a monster, or
become one, and turn on them.
• Notice and speculate about your distinctive eyes.
Changeling (Uncommon Heritage)
Your mother was a hag. Your eyes’ heterochromia is the
most obvious signifier of this parentage, but you likely
also have a slighter build, paler skin, and darker hair than
most members of your other parent’s ancestry. You gain
the changeling trait. You also gain low-light vision, or

you gain darkvision if your ancestry already has low-
light vision. You can select from changeling feats and

feats from your other parent’s ancestry whenever
you gain an ancestry feat.
Changeling Feats
The following feats are available to changeling
characters.
Lineages
Changelings can select any of the
following lineages.
BRINE MAY FEAT 1
CHANGELING LINEAGE
Your mother was a sea hag, granting you one sea-green or
blue eye. You find comfort both in the sea and on the shore.
Whenever you roll a success on an Athletics check to Swim,
you get a critical success instead. If you end your turn in water
without having succeeded at a Swim action that round, you
don’t sink (but you might still be moved by the current).
CALLOW MAY FEAT 1
CHANGELING LINEAGE
You are among the most common of changelings—those born to
sweet hags—and a vibrant green eye signifies that parentage.
Your mother’s manipulative nature and versatile voice gives
you an edge when deceiving others. You gain the Charming Liar
skill feat. If you roll Deception for initiative, foes in that combat
encounter that haven’t acted yet are off-guard against you.
DREAM MAY FEAT 1
CHANGELING LINEAGE
You are the child of a cuckoo hag, making one of your eyes violet
or even black. Your mother’s powers over sleep and dreams have
given you a degree of resistance to those effects, granting you a
+2 circumstance bonus to all saving throws against sleep effects
and effects that cause or alter dreams.
In addition, sleep is more restorative for you. You regain HP
equal to your Constitution modifier × double your level (instead
of just × your level), and you reduce any drained and doomed
conditions you have by 2 instead of by 1.
SLAG MAY FEAT 1
CHANGELING LINEAGE
Your mother was an iron hag known for physical prowess, and
you have one violet or steel-gray eye. You have thick, sturdy
claws made of cold iron that grow naturally from your body.
You gain a claw unarmed attack that deals 1d6 slashing damage.
Your claws are in the brawling group, have the unarmed and
grapple traits, and are cold iron.
1ST LEVEL
CHANGELING LORE FEAT 1
CHANGELING
All too aware of your true nature, you’ve studied hags and their
powers. You gain the trained proficiency rank in Deception and
Occultism. If you would automatically become trained in one of
those skills (from your background or class, for example), you
instead become trained in a skill of your choice.
You also gain the Additional Lore general feat for Hag Lore.
HAG CLAWS FEAT 1
CHANGELING
When you came of age, your fingernails grew long and sharp.
You gain a claw unarmed attack that deals 1d4 slashing damage.
Your claws are in the brawling group and have the agile, finesse,
and unarmed traits.

Special Hag claws can develop at any point in a changeling’s
life. You can select this feat anytime you would gain an
ancestry feat, but you can’t retrain out of it.
HAG’S SIGHT FEAT 1
CHANGELING
You’ve nurtured the supernatural abilities gifted by your hag
mother, particularly your sight. You gain darkvision.
5TH LEVEL
CALLED FEAT 5
CHANGELING
You’ve heard the Call, and by resisting it, you’ve developed
a bulwark against effects that target your mind. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Will saving throws against mental effects.
If you roll a success on your saving throw against a mental effect
that would make you controlled, you get a critical success instead.
MIST CHILD FEAT 5
CHANGELING
You blend in with unnatural subtlety. When you are concealed
or hidden, increase the DC of the flat check to target you to 6
if you’re concealed or 12 if you’re hidden.
9TH LEVEL
ACCURSED CLAWS FEAT 9
CHANGELING
Prerequisites claw unarmed attack
Your claws carry your mother’s hag magic. When you critically
hit with a claw Strike, the target takes an additional 1d4
persistent mental damage.
OCCULT RESISTANCE FEAT 9
CHANGELING
Prerequisites expert in Occultism
Your study of occult practices has shown you how to best
defend against them. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to all
saving throws against occult effects.
13TH LEVEL
HAG MAGIC FEAT 13
CHANGELING
Through your heritage, you can replicate a hag’s magic. Choose
one common spell of 4th rank or lower from those available to
a coven, including the spells contributed to a coven by a hag
of your mother’s type. You can cast this spell once per day as a
4th-rank occult innate spell.
Spells available to all covens are augury, charm, clairaudience,
clairvoyance, dream message, and illusory disguise. The eligible
spells granted by the most prominent types of hag are: Cuckoo
Hag nightmare, spellwrack; Iron Hag earthbind, spellwrack; Sea
Hag humanoid form, mariner’s curse, water walk; Sweet Hag
charm, honeyed words, outcast’s curse
NEPHILIM
Countless legends tell of mortal dealings with immortal
beings, and of the children born from those encounters.
These children, known as planar scions, are mortals who
inherit the supernatural essence of another plane, which
manifests through their distinctive physical features and
otherworldly powers. This section presents rules for
nephilim, planar scions who can trace their extraplanar
heritage back to celestials, fiends, monitors, and other
entities who often become involved in the religious
affairs of mortals.

A faithful priest of Erastil is visited by an angel in his
youth, and many years later he fathers a child with the
head of an elk and a birthmark shaped like Erastil’s
religious symbol, a bow and arrow. A powerful sorceress
prevents an incursion from the Outer Rifts, but a sliver
of demonic power infuses the child she carries, who is
born with fangs and a pair of tiny horns. A planar caravan
travels the Multiverse until its ranks are filled with children
who possess devilish hooves and angelic halos. These
children, known as nephilim, possess the ambition and
capacity for growth and change inherent in their mortal
forebears, while also possessing some portion of the power
and appearance of an immortal entity or entities whose
energies influenced their bloodline.
Nephilim are difficult to categorize by nature. Some
possess both demonic and angelic traits, while others
possess abilities that defy the neat categories of scholars.
Many nephilim do have traits that strongly point to their
lineage, though. Nephilim who carry the power of archons,
sometimes known as lawbringers, may display golden eyes
or flaming auras, while nephilim descended from devils,
known as hellspawn, may have red skin and hooved feet.
While the term nephilim broadly describes these
individuals, some cultures use the name empyrean
or cambion to refer to nephilim with celestial influence
or fiendish influence respectively. Other nephilim
sometimes earn the names of aphorite or ganzi, though this
entry only focuses on empyreans and cambions.
If you want a character who is supernaturally infused
with the power of the Outer Planes, whose appearance
is striking and notable, and whose personal connections
might extend beyond the bounds of the Universe, you
should play a nephilim.
You Might...
• Have a strong sense of self-confidence due to the
power or influence of your extraplanar heritage.
• Lean into or rebel against your perceived
extraplanar nature, embracing angelic goodness or
twisting demonic rage towards better ends.
• Find that building relationships with others is
difficult, but treasure those who value you for who,
and not what, you are.
Others Probably...
• Assume you’ve faced numerous challenges or
gained unfair advantages due to your heritage.
• Mistake you for an agent of a holy or unholy
organization.
• Think you have associations with powerful
extraplanar creatures, potentially trying to bargain
with you for power of their own.
Nephilim (Uncommon Heritage)
Your nature is influenced by celestials, fiends, or monitors.
This manifests as a combination of features that belie your
heritage, such as golden eyes, a halo, horns, or a tail. You
gain the nephilim trait, in addition to the traits from your
ancestry. You gain low-light vision, or you gain darkvision
if your ancestry already has low-light vision. You can
choose from nephilim feats and feats from your ancestry
whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
Nephilim Feats
The following feats are available to nephilim characters.
Lineages
Nephilim can select any of the following lineages.
ANGELKIN FEAT 1
LINEAGE NEPHILIM
You descend from an angel, a winged messenger from Nirvana
or one of the other celestial realms. You gain the trained
proficiency rank in Society. If you would automatically become
trained in Society (from your background or class, for example),
you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You know
the Empyrean language, and you gain the Multilingual skill feat.
GRIMSPAWN FEAT 1
LINEAGE NEPHILIM
Your lineage traces back to a daemon, one of the manifestations
of horrific forms of death that devour souls within their foul
home of Abaddon. As a result, you cling tenaciously to the last
shreds of your own life force. You gain the Diehard general feat.
HELLSPAWN FEAT 1
LINEAGE NEPHILIM
Your lineage descends from devils, conniving schemers of Hell.
You’re as skilled at noticing lies and twisted wordings as you
are at constructing them. You are trained in Deception and
Legal Lore. If you were already trained in Deception (from your
background or class, for example), you instead become trained
in a skill of your choice. You also gain the Lie to Me skill feat.
LAWBRINGER FEAT 1
LINEAGE NEPHILIM

You trace your lineage to archons, guardians of the seven-
tiered mountain of Heaven and nurturers of law and virtue

within mortals. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saves
against emotion effects, and if you roll a success on a save
against an emotion effect, you get a critical success instead.
MUSETOUCHED FEAT 1
LINEAGE NEPHILIM
Your blood sings with the liberating power of the azatas, living
embodiments of freedom from the wild realm of Elysium. You
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Escape. When you roll a critical
failure on a check to Escape, you get a failure instead, and when
you roll a success, you get a critical success instead.

PITBORN FEAT 1
LINEAGE NEPHILIM
Your blood bears the mark of a demon, a living embodiment
of sin from the fetid depths of the Outer Rifts. Demonic power
pulses through your veins and manifests in a different way
for each pitborn, whether you have webbed fingers and thrive
in the water, large hands capable of wrestling larger foes, or
some other manifestation. You are trained in Athletics. If you
were already trained in Athletics (from your background or
class, for example), you instead become trained in a skill of
your choice.
You also gain any one common 1st-level skill feat with a
prerequisite of trained in Athletics, as reflects the manifestation
of your fiendish blood.
1ST LEVEL
BESTIAL MANIFESTATION FEAT 1
NEPHILIM
Part of your body has an animalistic influence from a planar
creature. Your hands end in claws, you have hooves instead of
feet, sharp teeth fill your mouth, or a tail extends from your
spine. You gain your choice of one of the following unarmed
attacks. The attack is in the brawling group and has the listed
damage die and traits.
Claw 1d4 slashing (agile, finesse, unarmed, versatile piercing)
Hoof 1d6 bludgeoning (finesse, unarmed)
Jaws 1d6 piercing (finesse, unarmed)
Tail 1d4 bludgeoning (agile, finesse, unarmed)
Special You can select this feat only at 1st level, and you can’t
retrain into or out of this feat, nor can you change the type of
attack you gained.
HALO FEAT 1
NEPHILIM
You have a halo of light and goodness that sheds light with the
effects of a divine light cantrip. A cantrip is heightened to a spell
rank equal to half your level rounded up. You can Sustain to
suppress or reestablish the halo.
NEPHILIM EYES FEAT 1
NEPHILIM
Prerequisites low-light vision
Your eyes can see through darkness with visual acuity akin to
that possessed by most extraplanar beings. You gain darkvision.
NEPHILIM LORE FEAT 1
NEPHILIM
You know the secrets of the Multiverse. You gain the trained
proficiency rank in either Diplomacy or Intimidation, and
Religion. If you would automatically become trained in one of
those skills (from your background or class, for example), you
instead become trained in a skill of your choice.
You also gain the Additional Lore general feat for a Lore
subcategory of a plane to which you trace your lineage.
NIMBLE HOOVES FEAT 1
NEPHILIM
You possess hooves, ankle wings, or some other feature that
hastens your movement. Your Speed increases by 5 feet.
Special The Speed increase from this feat isn’t cumulative with
any Speed increase from other ancestry feats.
5TH LEVEL
BLESSED BLOOD FEAT 5
NEPHILIM
Your spilled blood is sanctified, with effects similar to those
of holy water (GM Core 268). Whenever a fiend, undead, or
creature with a weakness to holy drinks your blood or deals
piercing or slashing damage to you with jaws, fangs, or a

similar attack, that creature takes 1d6 spirit damage with
the holy trait. You gain a +4 circumstance bonus to Crafting
checks to Craft holy water using your blood as one of the
ingredients.
EXTRAPLANAR SUPPLICATION FEAT 5
NEPHILIM
You call upon divine power to place a benediction upon your
allies or a malediction upon your foes. Choose either bless or
bane. You can cast the chosen spell once per day as a 1st-rank
divine innate spell.
NEPHILIM RESISTANCE FEAT 5
NEPHILIM
You resist energy like your extraplanar predecessors. Choose
one of the following energy damage types: acid, cold, electricity,
fire, or sonic. You gain resistance 5 to that damage type.
The damage type typically matches an extraplanar entity
associated with your bloodline. For instance, an angelkin might
choose resistance to cold, while a hellspawn might choose
resistance to fire.
SCION OF MANY PLANES FEAT 5
NEPHILIM
The long and complicated history of your bloodline manifests
in your ability to draw power from more planar sources than
most other nephilim. Choose one nephilim lineage feat that you
do not already possess; you gain that feat and all of its benefits,
even if you already took a lineage feat at 1st level.
SKILLFUL TAIL FEAT 5
NEPHILIM
You’ve always had a tail, but with practice, you’ve learned to use
it for more than signaling your mood. You can perform simple
Interact actions with your tail, such as opening an unlocked
door. Your tail can’t perform actions that require fingers or
significant manual dexterity, including any action that would
require a check to accomplish, and you can’t use it to hold items.
9TH LEVEL
CELESTIAL MAGIC FEAT 9
NEPHILIM
Prerequisites Angelkin, Lawbringer, Musetouched, or another
lineage feat associated with celestials
You possess celestial magic. Choose two of the following spells:
clear mind, everlight, humanoid form, revealing light, share life,
or sure footing. You can use each of the chosen spells once per
day as 2nd-rank divine innate spells.
Angelkin typically take clear mind and humanoid form,
lawbringers typically have everlight and share life, and
musetouched typically have revealing light and sure footing.
DIVINE COUNTERMEASURES FEAT 9
NEPHILIM
You’ve studied your extraplanar heritage with the intent of
better defending yourself, whether against creatures aligned
with or opposed to your extraplanar lineage, and you’ve found
that your techniques are equally powerful against celestials,
fiends, and other divine entities. You gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to all saving throws against divine effects.
DIVINE WINGS [two-actions] FEAT 9
DIVINE MORPH NEPHILIM
Frequency once per day
With effort, you can call forth magical wings from your back,
similar in appearance to those of your extraplanar forebear,
whether they be elegantly feathered wings or ominous bat
wings. These wings remain for 10 minutes. You gain a fly
Speed equal to your Speed while you’ve manifested your
wings.
FIENDISH MAGIC FEAT 9
NEPHILIM
Prerequisites Grimspawn, Pitborn, or Hellspawn
You possess fiendish magic. Choose two of the following spells:
disguise magic, false vitality, invisibility, see the unseen, shatter,
or paranoia. You can use each of the chosen spells once per day
as 2nd-rank divine innate spells.
Grimspawn typically take false vitality and see the unseen,
pitborn typically take paranoia and shatter, and hellspawn
typically take invisibility and disguise.
13TH LEVEL
CELESTIAL MERCY FEAT 13
NEPHILIM
Prerequisites Angelkin, Lawbringer, Musetouched, or another
lineage feat associated with celestials
Your celestial powers allow you to remove lesser afflictions
with ease. You can cast cleanse affliction twice per day as a
4th-rank divine innate spell.
SLIP SIDEWAYS FEAT 13
NEPHILIM
Prerequisites Grimspawn, Pitborn, or Hellspawn, or another
lineage feat associated with fiends or the Maelstrom
Like many fiends, you have the supernatural ability to teleport
yourself to safety. Once per day, you can cast translocate as a
5th-rank divine innate spell.
SUMMON NEPHILIM KIN FEAT 13
NEPHILIM
Prerequisites any nephilim lineage feat
You have a connection to the Outer Planes, allowing you to
summon a divine ally. Choose either summon celestial, summon
fiend, or another 5th-rank spell capable of summoning an
extraplanar creature appropriate to your lineage. Once per day,
you can cast the chosen spell as a 5th-rank divine innate spell,
but the creature summoned must be from the same category
as your own lineage, such as a creature with the angel trait if
you are an angelkin.

17TH LEVEL
DIVINE DECLARATION FEAT 17
NEPHILIM
You can call forth a holy or unholy word from the realms
beyond to punish your foes. Once per day, you can cast divine
decree as a 7th-rank divine innate spell.
ETERNAL WINGS FEAT 17
NEPHILIM
Prerequisites Divine Wings
Your wings are now a permanent part of your body. You gain
the effects of Divine Wings at all times, rather than just once
per day for 10 minutes.
MIXED ANCESTRY
You can choose a mixed ancestry to represent having two
ancestral lines for your character. This doesn’t preclude
having more than two ancestries in your genealogy,
but you’ll need to work with your GM if you want to
have more than two reflected in the rules. The possible
combinations of ancestries are immeasurable,
though most people in the Inner Sea region are
familiar with only aiuvarins and dromaars, as
those are the most common people of mixed
ancestry they encounter.
Custom Mixed Heritage: You can
work with your GM to create a mixed
heritage for an ancestry other than elf
or orc. A custom mixed-ancestry heritage is
an uncommon heritage. Choose an ancestry
to tie to the heritage. You gain any traits of
that ancestry and a new trait for your
combined ancestry, similar to how
the aiuvarin heritage below grants
the “elf” and “aiuvarin” traits. You
also gain low-light vision if the ancestry
tied to the heritage has low-light vision or
darkvision. The heritage lets you select ancestry feats
for the chosen ancestry in addition to those from your base
ancestry. The aiuvarin and dromaar heritages both have
special feats, but a custom heritage will need you to work
with your GM to create or adapt some.
Aiuvarin
Elves’ children with people of other ancestries, and the
children of their children, are called “aiuvarin”, an elven
word that refers to a poem about leaves that fall too quickly
to the ground. The most familiar aiuvarins in Golarion are
born to an elf and a human, or to two aiuvarins. Those

born of these unions are commonly referred to as “half-
elves.” The life of an aiuvarin can be difficult, often marked

by a struggle to fit in. Aiuvarins don’t have their own
homeland on Golarion, nor are populations of aiuvarins
particularly tied to one another since they often have very
disparate traditions from their parents’ ancestries. Instead,
they often attempt to find acceptance in their parents’
cultures or settlements.
Aiuvarins often have pointed ears and can be lanky, along
with manifesting traits from their non-elven ancestors.
They lack the almost-alien eyes of their elf parents, and
their work to find a place for themselves in communities
where they’re often out of sync with the dominant culture
leads many to become artists or entertainers. Despite this
innate socialization, many aiuvarins have difficulty forming
lasting bonds with either of their parents’ people due to the
distance they feel from both communities as a whole.
Aiuvarins gain some, but not all, of their elven parent’s

longevity, and those with a human parent often live for
around 150 years. This causes some of them to fear
friendship and romance with humans, knowing that they’ll
likely outlive their companions.
You Might... • Keep to yourself and find it difficult to form
close bonds with others.
• Strongly embrace or reject one side or the
other of your parentage.
• Identify strongly with and relate to other
people with mixed ancestries.
Others Probably... • Find you more approachable

than elves.
• See you primarily through the
lens of your elven heritage.
• Downplay the challenges of
being caught between cultures.

Aiuvarin (Heritage)
You have elves, or possibly other aiuvarins, in your family
tree. You have pointed ears and other telltale signs of elf

heritage. You gain the elf trait, the aiuvarin trait, and low-
light vision. In addition, when you gain an ancestry feat,

you can choose from aiuvarin and elf feats in addition to
those from your ancestry.
Aiuvarin Feats
In addition to feats from the elf ancestry (page 46), the
following feats are available to aiuvarin characters.
1ST LEVEL
EARNED GLORY FEAT 1
AIUVARIN
Elves often struggle with underestimating aiuvarins, and you
are experienced at telling stories of your accomplishments
to gain their respect. You are trained in Performance. If you
would automatically become trained in Performance (from
your background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice.
You gain the Impressive Performance feat (page 256). When
you attempt a Performance check to Make an Impression on
an elf, if you roll a critical failure, you get a failure instead.
ELF ATAVISM FEAT 1
AIUVARIN
Your elven blood runs particularly strong, granting you features
far more elven than those of a typical aiuvarin. You may also
have been raised among elves, steeped in your elven ancestors’
heritage. You gain the benefits of the elf heritage of your elven
parent or ancestors. You typically can’t select a heritage that
depends on or improves an elven feature you don’t have. For
example, you couldn’t take the Ancient Elf heritage (page 47)
unless your non-elf ancestry also has a lifespan measured in
multiple centuries. In these cases, at the GM’s discretion, you
might gain a different benefit.
Special You can take this feat only at 1st level, and you can’t
retrain out of this feat or into this feat.
5TH LEVEL
INSPIRE IMITATION FEAT 5
AIUVARIN
Your actions inspire your allies to great
achievements. Whenever you critically succeed
at a skill check, you automatically qualify to use
the Aid reaction when attempting to help an ally
using the same skill, even without spending an
action to prepare to do so.
SUPERNATURAL CHARM FEAT 5
AIUVARIN
The elven magic in your blood
manifests as a force you can use to
become more appealing or alluring. You
can cast 1st-rank charm as an arcane innate spell once per day.
Dromaars
As the orcs of Belkzen have become a critical vanguard in
the war against the Whispering Tyrant, sometimes fighting
alongside allies of other ancestries, children with a mix of
orc heritage and that of another ancestry (typically human)
have grown in number. Many of these “half-orcs” refer to
themselves as “dromaars,” an orcish word referring to
those drummers whose music sends the hordes marching
to war, seeing themselves as heralds of a new age for orcs in
the Inner Sea region. Some intolerant humanoids see orcs
as more akin to monsters than people, hating and fearing
them simply due to their lineage. This can push dromaars
to the margins of society, where some find work in manual
labor, as mercenaries, or in crime. Many who can’t stand
the indignities heaped on them in human society find a
home among their orc kin or trek into the wilderness.
Some humans assume dromaars are less intelligent or
uncivilized, and dromaars rarely find acceptance among
societies with many such folk. To an orc hold, a dromaar
is often considered a valuable addition, making up for
anything they might lack in physical strength with gifts
inherited from their other ancestral line. While some
dromaars struggle to claim a name for themselves in the
unforgiving hierarchies of orc holds, others may find
that orcish society is far more tolerant and can create
opportunities to rise high.
A dromaar with a human parent can typically live to
around 70 years old.

You Might...
• Ignore, embrace, or actively counter the common
stereotypes about dromaars.
• Make the most of your size and strength, either
physically or socially.
• Keep your distance from people of most other
ancestries, in case they unfairly reject you due to
your orc ancestors.
Others Probably... • Assume you enjoy and excel at fighting
but aren’t inclined toward magical or
intellectual pursuits.
• Pity you for the tragic circumstances
they assume were involved in
your birth.
• Get out of your way and back
down rather than face your anger.
Dromaar (Heritage)
Orcish strength emboldens your
bloodline. You have a green tinge
to your skin and other indicators
of orc heritage. You gain the orc
trait, the dromaar trait, and low-light
vision. When you gain an ancestry feat, you
can choose from dromaar and orc feats in addition to
those from your ancestry.
Dromaar Feats
In addition to feats from the orc ancestry (page 70), the
following feats are available to dromaar characters.
1ST LEVEL
MONSTROUS PEACEMAKER FEAT 1
DROMAAR
Your dual human and orc nature has given you a unique
perspective, allowing you to bridge the gap between humans
and the many intelligent creatures in the world that humans
consider monsters. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
Diplomacy checks against non-humanoid intelligent creatures
and against humanoids that are marginalized in human
society (at the GM’s discretion, but typically at least including
giants, goblins, kobolds, and orcs). You also gain this bonus
on Perception checks to Sense the Motives of such creatures.
ORC SIGHT FEAT 1
DROMAAR
Prerequisites low-light vision
Your orc blood grants you the keen vision of your forebears.
You gain darkvision, allowing you to see in darkness and
dim light just as well as you can in bright light. However, in
darkness, you see in black and white only.
Special You can take this feat only at 1st level, and you can’t
retrain out of this feat or into this feat.
BACKGROUNDS
Backgrounds allow you to customize your character based on their life before adventuring.
This is the next step in their life story after their ancestry, which reflects the circumstances
of their birth. Your character’s background can help you learn or portray more about their
personality while also suggesting what sorts of things they’re likely to know. Consider
what events set your character on their path to the life of an adventurer and how those
circumstances relate to their background.
At 1st level, when you create your character, you gain a
background of your choice. This decision is permanent;
you can’t change it at later levels. Each background
listed here grants two boosts, a skill feat, and the trained
proficiency rank in two skills, one of which is a Lore
skill. If you gain the trained proficiency rank in a skill
from your background and would then gain the trained
proficiency rank in the same skill from your class at 1st
level, you instead become trained in another skill of your
choice.
Lore skills represent deep knowledge of a specific
subject and are described on page 240. If a Lore skill
involves a choice (for instance, a choice of terrain),
explain your preference to the GM, who has the final
say on whether it’s acceptable or not. If you’d like some
suggestions, the Common Lore Subcategories sidebar on
page 240 lists a number of Lore skills that are suitable
for most campaigns.
Skill feats expand the functions of your skills and
appear in Chapter 5: Feats.
ACOLYTE BACKGROUND
You spent your early days in a religious monastery or
cloister. You may have traveled out into the world to spread
the message of your religion or because you cast away the
teachings of your faith, but deep down, you’ll always carry
within you the lessons you learned.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Religion skill and the Scribing Lore skill.
You gain the Student of the Canon skill feat.
ACROBAT BACKGROUND
In a circus or on the streets, you earned your pay by performing
as an acrobat. You might have turned to adventuring when the
money dried up, or simply decided to put your skills to better
use.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Strength or
Dexterity, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Acrobatics skill and the Circus Lore
skill. You gain the Steady Balance skill feat.
ANIMAL WHISPERER BACKGROUND
You have always felt a connection to animals, and it was
only a small leap to learn to train them. As you travel, you
continuously encounter different creatures, befriending themAt 1st level, when you create your character, you gain a
background of your choice. This decision is permanent;
you can’t change it at later levels. Each background
listed here grants two boosts, a skill feat, and the trained
proficiency rank in two skills, one of which is a Lore
skill. If you gain the trained proficiency rank in a skill
from your background and would then gain the trained
proficiency rank in the same skill from your class at 1st
level, you instead become trained in another skill of your
choice.
Lore skills represent deep knowledge of a specific
subject and are described on page 240. If a Lore skill
involves a choice (for instance, a choice of terrain),
explain your preference to the GM, who has the final
say on whether it’s acceptable or not. If you’d like some
suggestions, the Common Lore Subcategories sidebar on
page 240 lists a number of Lore skills that are suitable
for most campaigns.
Skill feats expand the functions of your skills and
appear in Chapter 5: Feats.
ACOLYTE BACKGROUND
You spent your early days in a religious monastery or
cloister. You may have traveled out into the world to spread
the message of your religion or because you cast away the
teachings of your faith, but deep down, you’ll always carry
within you the lessons you learned.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Religion skill and the Scribing Lore skill.
You gain the Student of the Canon skill feat.
ACROBAT BACKGROUND
In a circus or on the streets, you earned your pay by performing
as an acrobat. You might have turned to adventuring when the
money dried up, or simply decided to put your skills to better
use.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Strength or
Dexterity, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Acrobatics skill and the Circus Lore
skill. You gain the Steady Balance skill feat.
ANIMAL WHISPERER BACKGROUND
You have always felt a connection to animals, and it was
only a small leap to learn to train them. As you travel, you
continuously encounter different creatures, befriending them
along the way.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Wisdom or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Nature skill and a Lore skill related to
one terrain inhabited by animals you like (such as Plains Lore
or Swamp Lore). You gain the Train Animal skill feat.
ARTISAN BACKGROUND
As an apprentice, you practiced a particular form of building
or crafting, developing a specialized skill. You might have been
a blacksmith’s apprentice toiling over the forge for countless
hours, a young tailor sewing garments of all kinds, or a
shipwright shaping the hulls of ships.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Strength or
Intelligence, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Guild Lore skill.
You gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat.
ARTIST BACKGROUND
Your art is your greatest passion, whatever form it takes.
Adventuring might help you find inspiration, or simply be a
way to survive until you become a world-famous artist.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Art Lore skill. You
gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat.
BANDIT BACKGROUND
Your past includes no small amount of rural banditry, robbing
travelers on the road and scraping by. Whether your robbery
was sanctioned by a local noble or you did so of your own
accord, you eventually got caught up in the adventuring life.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Intimidation skill and a Lore skill
related to the terrain you worked in (such as Desert Lore or
Plains Lore). You gain the Group Coercion skill feat.
BARKEEP BACKGROUND
You have five specialties: hefting barrels, drinking, polishing
steins, drinking, and drinking. You worked in a bar, where you
learned how to hold your liquor and rowdily socialize.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Alcohol Lore
skill. You gain the Hobnobber skill feat.
BARRISTER BACKGROUND
Piles of legal manuals, stern teachers, and experience in the
courtroom have instructed you in legal matters. You’re capable
of mounting a prosecution or defense in court, and you tend to
keep abreast of local laws, as you never know when you might
need to know them on short notice.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Legal Lore skill.
You gain the Group Impression skill feat.
BOUNTY HUNTER BACKGROUND
Bringing in lawbreakers lined your pockets. Maybe you had an
altruistic motive and sought to bring in criminals to make the
streets safer, or maybe the coin was motivation enough. Your
techniques for hunting down criminals transfer easily to the
life of an adventurer.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Strength or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and the Legal Lore skill.
You gain the Experienced Tracker skill feat.
CHARLATAN BACKGROUND
You traveled from place to place, peddling false fortunes and
snake oil in one town, while pretending to be royalty in exile
to seduce a wealthy heir in the next. Becoming an adventurer

might be your next big scam or an attempt to put your talents
to use for a greater cause. Perhaps it’s a bit of both, as you
realize that after pretending to be a hero, you’ve become the
mask.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Deception skill and the Underworld
Lore skill. You gain the Charming Liar skill feat.
COOK BACKGROUND
You grew up in the kitchens of a tavern or other dining
establishment and excelled there, becoming an exceptional
cook. Baking, cooking, a little brewing on the side—you’ve
spent lots of time out of sight. It’s about time you went out
into the world to catch some sights for yourself.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Intelligence, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill, and the Cooking Lore
skill. You gain the Seasoned skill feat.
CRIMINAL BACKGROUND
As an unscrupulous independent or as a member of an
underworld organization, you lived a life of crime. You might
have become an adventurer to seek redemption, to escape the
law, or simply to get access to bigger and better loot.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Intelligence, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Stealth skill and the Underworld Lore
skill. You gain the Experienced Smuggler skill feat.
CULTIST BACKGROUND
You were (or still are) a member of a cult whose rites may
involve sacred dances to ensure a strong harvest or dire
rituals that call upon dark powers. You might have taken up
adventuring to further your cult’s aims, to initiate yourself into
the world’s grander mysteries, or to flee unsavory practices or
strictures.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Occultism skill, and a Lore skill related
to your deity or cult. You gain the Schooled in Secrets skill feat.
DETECTIVE BACKGROUND
You solved crimes as a police inspector or took jobs for wealthy
clients as a private investigator. You might have become an
adventurer as part of your next big mystery, but likely it was
due to the consequences or aftermath of a prior case.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and the Underworld Lore
skill. You gain the Streetwise skill feat.
EMISSARY BACKGROUND
As a diplomat or messenger, you traveled to lands far and
wide. Communicating with new people and forming alliances
were your stock and trade.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and a Lore skill related to
one city you’ve visited often. You gain the Multilingual skill
feat.
ENTERTAINER BACKGROUND
Through an education in the arts or sheer dogged practice, you
learned to entertain crowds. You might have been an actor,
a dancer, a musician, a street magician, or any other sort of
performer.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Performance skill and the Theater Lore
skill. You gain the Fascinating Performance skill feat.
FARMHAND BACKGROUND
With a strong back and an understanding of seasonal cycles,
you tilled the land and tended crops. Your farm could have
been razed by invaders, you could have lost the family tying
you to the land, or you might have simply tired of the drudgery,
but at some point, you became an adventurer.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Athletics skill and the Farming Lore
skill. You gain the Assurance skill feat with Athletics.

FIELD MEDIC BACKGROUND
In the chaotic rush of battle, you learned to adapt to rapidly
changing conditions as you administered to battle casualties.
You patched up soldiers, guards, or other combatants, and
learned a fair amount about the logistics of war.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Medicine skill and the Warfare Lore
skill. You gain the Battle Medicine skill feat.
FORTUNE TELLER BACKGROUND
The strands of fate are clear to you, as you have learned many
traditional forms by which laypeople can divine the future.
You might have used these skills to guide your community,
or simply to make money. But even the slightest peek into
these practices connects you to the occult mysteries of the
universe.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Occultism skill and the Fortune-Telling
Lore skill. You gain the Oddity Identification skill feat.
GAMBLER BACKGROUND
The thrill of the win drew you into games of chance. This might
have been a lucrative sideline that paled in comparison to the
real risks of adventuring, or you might have fallen on hard
times due to your gambling and pursued adventuring as a way
out of a spiral.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Deception skill and the Games Lore
skill. You gain the Lie to Me skill feat.
GLADIATOR BACKGROUND
The bloody games of the arena taught you the art of combat.
Before you attained true fame, you departed—or escaped—the
arena to explore the world. Your skill at drawing both blood
and a crowd’s attention pay off in a new adventuring life.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Strength or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Performance skill and the Gladiatorial
Lore skill. You gain the Impressive Performance skill feat.
GUARD BACKGROUND
You served in the guard, out of either patriotism or the need
for coin. Either way, you know how to get a difficult suspect
to talk. However you left the guard, you might think of
adventuring as a way to use your skills on a wider stage.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Strength or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Intimidation skill and the Legal Lore or
Warfare Lore skill. You gain the Quick Coercion skill feat.
HERBALIST BACKGROUND
As a formally trained apothecary or a rural practitioner of folk
medicine, you learned the healing properties of various herbs.
You’re adept at collecting the right natural cures in all sorts of
environments and preparing them properly.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Nature skill and the Herbalism Lore
skill. You gain the Natural Medicine skill feat.
HERMIT BACKGROUND
In an isolated place—like a cave, remote oasis, or secluded
mansion—you lived a life of solitude. Adventuring might be a
welcome reprieve from solitude or an unwanted change, but in
either case, you’re likely still rough around the edges.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Intelligence, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Nature or Occultism skill, plus a Lore
skill related to the terrain you lived in as a hermit (such as Cave
Lore or Desert Lore). You gain the Dubious Knowledge skill feat.
HUNTER BACKGROUND
You stalked and took down animals and other creatures of
the wild. Skinning animals, harvesting their flesh, and cooking
them were also part of your training, all of which can give you
useful resources while you adventure.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and the Tanning Lore skill.
You gain the Survey Wildlife skill feat.
LABORER BACKGROUND
You’ve spent years performing arduous physical labor. It was a
difficult life, but you somehow survived. You may have embraced
adventuring as an easier method to make your way in the world,
or you might adventure under someone else’s command.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Strength or
Constitution, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Athletics skill and the Labor Lore skill.
You gain the Hefty Hauler skill feat.
MARTIAL DISCIPLE BACKGROUND
You dedicated yourself to intense training and
rigorous study to become a great warrior.
The school you attended might have
been a traditionalist monastery, an
elite military academy, or the local
branch of a prestigious mercenary
organization.
Choose two attribute boosts. One
must be to Strength or Dexterity, and
one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in your choice
of the Acrobatics or Athletics
skill. You gain a skill feat: Cat
Fall if you chose Acrobatics
or Quick Jump if you chose
Athletics. You’re also trained in
the Warfare Lore skill.

MERCHANT BACKGROUND
In a dusty shop, market stall, or merchant caravan, you
bartered wares for coin and trade goods. The skills you picked
up still apply in the adventuring life, in which a good deal on a
suit of armor could prevent your death.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Mercantile Lore
skill. You gain the Bargain Hunter skill feat.
MINER BACKGROUND
You earned a living wrenching precious minerals from the
lightless depths of the earth. Adventuring might have seemed
lucrative or glamorous compared to this backbreaking labor—
and if you have to head back underground, this time you plan
to do so armed with a real weapon instead of a miner’s pick.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Strength or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and the Mining Lore skill.
You gain the Terrain Expertise skill feat with underground
terrain.
NOBLE BACKGROUND
To the common folk, the life of a noble seems one of idyllic
luxury, but growing up as a noble or member of the aspiring
gentry, you know the reality: a noble’s lot is obligation
and intrigue. Whether you seek to escape your duties by
adventuring or to better your station, you have traded silks
and pageantry for an adventurer’s life.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and your choice of the
Genealogy Lore or Heraldry Lore skill. You gain the Courtly
Graces skill feat.
NOMAD BACKGROUND
Traveling far and wide, you picked up basic tactics for
surviving on the road and in unknown lands, getting by with
few supplies and even fewer comforts. As an adventurer, you
travel still, often into even more dangerous places.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and a Lore skill related
to one terrain you traveled in (such as Desert Lore or Swamp
Lore). You gain the Assurance skill feat with Survival.
PRISONER BACKGROUND
You have been imprisoned or punished for crimes (whether
you were guilty or not). Now that your sentence has ended
or you’ve escaped, you take full advantage of the newfound
freedom of your adventuring life.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Strength or
Constitution, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Stealth skill and the Underworld Lore
skill. You gain the Experienced Smuggler skill feat.
RAISED BY BELIEF BACKGROUND
Whether in a monastery, a religious household, or just as part
of your everyday life, your upbringing was steeped in the
traditions of a particular deity (page 35). You might remain
committed or you may have turned from your childhood creed,
but your skills are still founded in your devotion.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to an attribute
specified in your deity’s Divine Attribute and the other is a free
attribute boost.
You’re trained in the deity’s listed Divine Skill and gain the
Assurance feat with that skill. You are also trained in a Lore
skill related to your deity (Abadar Lore, for example).
SAILOR BACKGROUND
You heard the call of the sea from a young age. Perhaps you
signed onto a merchant’s vessel, joined the navy, or even fell in
with a crew of pirates and scalawags.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Strength or
Dexterity, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Athletics skill and the Sailing Lore skill.
You gain the Underwater Marauder skill feat.
SCHOLAR BACKGROUND
You have a knack for learning and sequestered yourself from
the outside world to learn all you could. You read about so
many wondrous places and things in your books, always
dreaming about one day seeing the real things. Eventually,
that curiosity led you to leave your studies and become an
adventurer.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in your choice of the Arcana, Nature,
Occultism, or Religion skill, and gain the Assurance skill feat
in your chosen skill. You’re also trained in the Academia Lore
skill.

SCOUT BACKGROUND
You called the wilderness home as you found trails and
guided travelers. Your wanderlust could have called you to the
adventuring life, or perhaps you served as a scout for soldiers
and found you liked battle.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and a Lore skill related
to one terrain you scouted in (such as Forest Lore or Cavern
Lore). You gain the Forager skill feat.
STREET URCHIN BACKGROUND
You eked out a living by picking pockets on the streets of a
major city, never knowing where you’d find your next meal.
While some adventure for the glory, you do so to survive.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Constitution, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in Thievery and a Lore skill for the city you
lived in as a street urchin (such as Absalom Lore or Magnimar
Lore). You gain the Pickpocket skill feat.
TEACHER BACKGROUND
You are incredibly knowledgeable, skilled, and perhaps even
trained to teach children and adults about the world and
its wonders. From books to classes, you’re committed to
imparting knowledge to all. Not everything can be taught or
learned from a book, though, so you’ve become an adventurer
to learn subjects more directly and bring that wisdom back to
your students.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in your choice of either the Performance or
Society skill, as well as the Academia Lore skill. You gain the
Experienced Professional skill feat.
TINKER BACKGROUND
Creating all sorts of minor inventions scratches your itch for
problem-solving. Your engineering skills take a particularly
creative bent, and no one knows what you’ll come up with
next. It might be a genius device with tremendous potential
or it might explode.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Intelligence, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Engineering Lore
skill. You gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat.
WARRIOR BACKGROUND
In your younger days, you waded into battle as a mercenary,
a warrior defending a nomadic people, or a member of a
militia or army. You might have wanted to break away from
the regimented structure of these forces, or you could have
always been as independent a warrior as you are now.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Strength or
Constitution, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Intimidation skill and the Warfare Lore
skill. You gain the Intimidating Glare skill feat.
LANGUAGES
The people of the Inner Sea region speak dozens of different languages, along with hundreds
of dialects and regional variations. While a character can generally get by with Taldane,
also known as Common, knowing another language is vital in some regions. Being able to
speak these tongues can help you with negotiation, spying on enemies, or just conducting
simple commerce. Languages also afford you the chance to contextualize your character in
the world and give meaning to your other character choices.
Your ancestry entry states which languages you know
at 1st level. Typically, this means you can both speak
and read these languages. Having a positive Intelligence
modifier grants a number of additional languages equal
to your Intelligence modifier. You can choose these
languages from the list presented in your character’s
ancestry entry and from those available from your
region or ethnicity. Ask your GM if there’s a language
you want to select that isn’t on these lists.
The languages presented here are grouped according to
how common they are throughout the Inner Sea region.
Languages that are common are regularly encountered
around the Inner Sea, even among those who aren’t
native speakers. Languages that are uncommon (see the
Uncommon Languages table and Regional Languages)
are most frequently spoken by native speakers, but they
are also spoken by certain scholars and others interested
in the associated cultures.
Many uncommon languages are spoken by natives of
other planes who rarely appear near the Inner Sea unless
summoned. Mortals learning these languages might
spend a lifetime without meeting a native speaker.
It is possible for your character to learn languages later
in their adventuring career. Selecting the Multilingual
feat, for example, grants a character two new languages
chosen from those listed below. If your Intelligence
changes later on, you also adjust your number of
languages accordingly. Other abilities and effects might
grant access to common or uncommon languages, as
detailed in their descriptions. Rare or secret languages
can only be discovered through play.
COMMON LANGUAGES
Language Speakers
Common Humans, dwarves, elves, halflings, and

other common ancestries
Draconic Dragons, reptilian humanoids
Dwarven Dwarves
Elven Elves, half-elves
Fey Fey, centaurs, plant and fungus creatures
Gnomish Gnomes
Goblin Goblins, hobgoblins, bugbears
Halfling Halflings
Jotun Giants, ogres, trolls, cyclopes
Orcish Orcs, half-orcs
Sakvroth Subterranean civilizations, serpentfolk
The people of the Inner Sea region speak dozens of different languages, along with hundreds
of dialects and regional variations. While a character can generally get by with Taldane,
also known as Common, knowing another language is vital in some regions. Being able to
speak these tongues can help you with negotiation, spying on enemies, or just conducting
simple commerce. Languages also afford you the chance to contextualize your character in
the world and give meaning to your other character choices.
LANGUAGES

UNCOMMON LANGUAGES
Language Speakers
Aklo Evil fey, otherworldly monsters
Chthonian Demons
Diabolic Devils
Empyrean Angels and other celestials
Kholo The hyena-like kholos
Necril Ghouls, intelligent undead
Petran Earth elemental creatures
Pyric Fire elemental creatures
Shadowtongue Nidalese, Netherworld creatures
Sussuran Air elemental creatures, flying creatures
Thalassic Aquatic creatures, water elemental

creatures

Regional Languages
Regional languages depend on the game world you’re
playing in. Chapter 1: Introduction lists the regional
languages of the Pathfinder world and where they’re
spoken (page 34).
Regional languages are uncommon, but characters
from that region have access to choose them at character
creation. For characters with less exposure to the region
or language, check with your GM to make sure speaking
that language makes sense for your character.
Most characters learn the Common language. This
is the most widely used language in the region where
the campaign takes place. In the Inner Sea region of
Golarion, the Common tongue is Taldane, for example.
Characters with Common might face a language barrier
if they travel somewhere with a different Common
language.
Sign Language
The language entry for most characters lists languages
they use to communicate in spoken words. However,
you might know the signed languages associated with
the languages you know, or how to read lips. You can
learn these by taking the Sign Language or Read Lips
skill feats, or both. If you are creating a character who
is deaf, hard of hearing, or unable to speak, discuss with
your GM whether it makes sense for your character
to know sign languages or lip reading. If so, your GM
might allow you to select one of these feats for free (even
if you don’t meet the prerequisites) to represent your
character concept.