CHAPTER 5:
FEATS
All kinds of experiences and training can shape your character beyond what you learn by
advancing in your class. Abilities that require a degree of training but can be learned by
anyone—not only members of certain ancestries or classes—are called general feats.
For most classes, you gain a general feat when you reach
3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter. Each time you
gain a general feat, you can select any feat with the
general trait whose prerequisites you satisfy.
General feats also include a subcategory of skill feats,
which expand on what you can accomplish via skills.
These feats also have the skill trait. Most characters
gain skill feats at 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter.
When you gain a skill feat, you must select a general feat
with the skill trait; you can’t select a general feat that
lacks the skill trait. The level of a skill feat is typically
the minimum level at which a character could meet its
proficiency prerequisite.
In addition to the skill feats specifically associated
with each skill, there are some that can be taken with
various skills or even all skills, like Assurance.
GENERAL FEATS
Non-Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Adopted Ancestry 1 — Gain access to ancestry feats from another ancestry
Armor Proficiency 1 — Become trained in a type of armor
Breath Control 1 — Hold your breath longer and gain benefits against inhaled threats
Canny Acumen 1 — Become an expert in a saving throw or Perception
Diehard 1 — Die at dying 5, rather than dying 4
Fast Recovery 1 Constitution +2 Regain more HP from rest, recover faster from disease
Feather Step 1 Dexterity +2 Step into difficult terrain
Fleet 1 — Increase your Speed by 5 feet
Incredible Initiative 1 — +2 to initiative rolls
Pet 1 — You have a loyal pet
Ride 1 — Automatically succeed at commanding your mount to move
Shield Block 1 — Ward off a blow with your shield
Toughness 1 — Increase your maximum HP and reduce the DCs of recovery checks
Weapon Proficiency 1 — Become trained in a weapon type
Ancestral Paragon 3 — Gain a 1st-level ancestry feat
Prescient Planner 3 — Procure a piece of adventuring gear
Untrained Improvisation 3 — Become more adept at using untrained skills
Expeditious Search 7 Master in Perception Search areas in half the time
Prescient Consumable 7 Prescient Planner Procure consumable items with Prescient Planner
Incredible Investiture 11 Charisma +3 Invest up to 12 magic items
GENERAL SKILL FEATS
Varying Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Assurance 1 Trained in at least one skill Receive a fixed result on a skill check
Dubious Knowledge 1 Trained in a Recall Knowledge skill Learn true and erroneous knowledge on failed check

Quick Identification 1 Trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion Identify Magic in 1 minute or less

Recognize Spell 1 Trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion Identify a spell as a reaction as it’s being cast

Skill Training 1 Intelligence +1 Become trained in a skill
Trick Magic Item 1 Trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion Activate a magic item you normally can’t activate

Seasoned 1 Trained in Alcohol Lore, Cooking Lore, or Crafting +1 to Craft food and drink, including elixirs and potions

Automatic Knowledge 2 Expert in Recall Knowledge action, Assurance in the
relevant skill Recall Knowledge as a free action once per round

Magical Shorthand 2 Expert in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion Learn spells quickly and at a reduced cost

Varying Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Break Curse 7 Master in Occultism or Religion Use your knowledge to break curses

Quick Recognition 7 Master in Arcana, Nature,Occultism, or Religion;
Recognize Spell Identify spells as a free action


Acrobatics Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Cat Fall 1 Trained in Acrobatics Treat falls as shorter than they are
Quick Squeeze 1 Trained in Acrobatics Move swiftly as you Squeeze
Steady Balance 1 Trained in Acrobatics Maintain your balance in adverse conditions
Nimble Crawl 2 Expert in Acrobatics Crawl at a faster rate
Kip Up 7 Master in Acrobatics Stand up for free without triggering reactions
Arcana Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Arcane Sense 1 Trained in Arcana Cast detect magic at will as an arcane innate spell
Unified Theory 15 Legendary in Arcana Use Arcana for checks for all magical traditions
Athletics Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Combat Climber 1 Trained in Athletics Fight more effectively as you Climb
Hefty Hauler 1 Trained in Athletics Increase your Bulk limits by 2
Quick Jump 1 Trained in Athletics High Jump or Long Jump as a single action
Titan Wrestler 1 Trained in Athletics Disarm, Grapple, Shove, or Trip larger creatures
Underwater Marauder 1 Trained in Athletics Fight more effectively underwater
Powerful Leap 2 Expert in Athletics Jump farther and higher
Rapid Mantel 2 Expert in Athletics Pull yourself onto ledges quickly
Quick Climb 7 Master in Athletics Climb swiftly
Quick Swim 7 Master in Athletics Swim quickly
Wall Jump 7 Master in Athletics Jump off walls
Cloud Jump 15 Legendary in Athletics Jump impossible distances
Crafting Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Alchemical Crafting 1 Trained in Crafting Craft alchemical items
Quick Repair 1 Trained in Crafting Repair items quickly
Snare Crafting 1 Trained in Crafting Craft snares
Specialty Crafting 1 Trained in Crafting Gain bonuses to Craft certain items
Communal Crafting 2 Trained in Crafting Other PCs can help you Craft
Inventor 2 Expert in Crafting Use Crafting to create item formulas
Magical Crafting 2 Expert in Crafting Craft magic items
Impeccable Crafting 7 Master in Crafting,Specialty Crafting Craft items more efficiently

Craft Anything 15 Legendary in Crafting Ignore most requirements for crafting items
Deception Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Charming Liar 1 Trained in Deception Improve a target’s attitude with your lies
Lengthy Diversion 1 Trained in Deception Remain hidden after you Create a Diversion
Lie to Me 1 Trained in Deception Use Deception to detect lies
Confabulator 2 Expert in Deception Reduce the bonuses against your repeated lies
Quick Disguise 2 Expert in Deception Set up a disguise in less time
Slippery Secrets 7 Master in Deception Evade attempts to uncover your true nature
Diplomacy Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Bargain Hunter 1 Trained in Diplomacy Earn Income by searching for deals
Group Impression 1 Trained in Diplomacy Make an Impression on multiple targets more easily
Hobnobber 1 Trained in Diplomacy Gather Information rapidly
No Cause for Alarm 1 Trained in Diplomacy Reduce creatures’ frightened condition values
Glad-Hand 2 Expert in Diplomacy Make an Impression on a target you’ve just met
Shameless Request 7 Master in Diplomacy Make Requests of others with lesser consequences
Legendary Negotiation 15 Legendary in Diplomacy Quickly parley with foes
Intimidation Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Group Coercion 1 Trained in Intimidation Coerce multiple targets simultaneously
Intimidating Glare 1 Trained in Intimidation Demoralize a creature without speaking
Quick Coercion 1 Trained in Intimidation Coerce a creature quickly
Intimidating Prowess 2 Strength +3, expert in Intimidation Gain a bonus to physically Demoralize a target

Lasting Coercion 2 Expert in Intimidation Coerce a target into helping you longer
Battle Cry 7 Master in Intimidation Demoralizes foes when you roll for initiative
Terrified Retreat 7 Master in Intimidation Cause foes you Demoralize to flee
Scare to Death 15 Legendary in Intimidation Scare a target so much, they might die
Lore Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Additional Lore 1 — Become trained in another Lore subcategory
Experienced Professional 1 Trained in Lore Prevent critical failures when Earning Income
Unmistakable Lore 2 Expert in Lore Recall Knowledge about your Lore more effectively
Legendary Professional 15 Legendary in Lore Gain renown for your Lore
Medicine Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Battle Medicine 1 Trained in Medicine Heal yourself or an ally in battle
Continual Recovery 2 Expert in Medicine Treat Wounds on a patient more often
Robust Recovery 2 Expert in Medicine Greater benefits from Treat Disease and Treat Poison
Ward Medic 2 Expert in Medicine Treat several patients at once
Unusual Treatment 2 Expert in Medicine Treat Wounds tends to additional conditions
Advanced First Aid 7 Master in Medicine Use First Aid to reduce frightened and sickened condition values
Legendary Medic 15 Legendary in Medicine Remove disease, blinded, deafened, doomed, or drained
Nature Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Natural Medicine 1 Trained in Nature Use Nature to Treat Wounds
Train Animal 1 Trained in Nature Teach an animal a trick
Bonded Animal 2 Expert in Nature An animal becomes permanently easier to command
Occultism Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Oddity Identification 1 Trained in Occultism Recognize magic involving minds, fortune, or secrets.
Schooled in Secrets 1 Trained in Occultism Gather Information about and Impersonate members
of secret societies

Bizarre Magic 7 Master in Occultism Your magic becomes more difficult to identify
Performance Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Fascinating Performance 1 Trained in Performance Perform to fascinate observers
Impressive Performance 1 Trained in Performance Make an Impression with Performance
Virtuosic Performer 1 Trained in Performance +1 with a certain type of performance
Legendary Performer 15 Legendary in Performance,Virtuosic Performer Gain renown for your Performance

Religion Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Student of the Canon 1 Trained in Religion More accurately recognize the tenets of your faith or philosophy
Divine Guidance 15 Legendary in Religion Find guidance in the writings of your faith
Society Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Courtly Graces 1 Trained in Society Get along in noble society
Multilingual 1 Trained in Society Learn two new languages
Read Lips 1 Trained in Society Read the lips of people you can see
Sign Language 1 Trained in Society Learn sign languages
Streetwise 1 Trained in Society Use Society to Gather Information and Recall Knowledge
Legendary Codebreaker 15 Legendary in Society Quickly Decipher Writing using Society
Legendary Linguist 15 Legendary in Society,Multilingual Create pidgin languages to communicate with anyone

Stealth Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Experienced Smuggler 1 Trained in Stealth Conceal items from observers more effectively
Terrain Stalker 1 Trained in Stealth Sneak in certain terrain without attempting a check
Quiet Allies 2 Expert in Stealth Roll a single Stealth check when sneaking with allies
Foil Senses 7 Master in Stealth Take precautions against special senses
Swift Sneak 7 Master in Stealth Move your full Speed while you Sneak
Legendary Sneak 15 Legendary in Stealth,Swift Sneak Hide and Sneak without cover or being concealed

Survival Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Experienced Tracker 1 Trained in Survival Track at your full Speed at a –5 penalty
Forager 1 Trained in Survival Forage for supplies to provide for multiple creatures
Survey Wildlife 1 Trained in Survival Identify nearby creatures through signs and clues
Terrain Expertise 1 Trained in Survival +1 to Survival checks in certain terrain
Monster Crafting 7 Master in Survival Craft items using monster parts
Planar Survival 7 Master in Survival Use Survival to Subsist on different planes
Legendary Survivalist 15 Legendary in Survival Survive extreme conditions
Thievery Skill Feats Level Prerequisites Benefits
Pickpocket 1 Trained in Thievery Steal or Palm an Object more effectively
Subtle Theft 1 Trained in Thievery Your thefts are harder to notice
Wary Disarmament 2 Expert in Thievery +2 to AC or saves against devices or traps while disarming
Quick Unlock 7 Master in Thievery Pick a Lock with 1 action
Legendary Thief 15 Legendary in Thievery,Pickpocket Steal what would normally be impossible to steal

ADDITIONAL LORE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Your knowledge has expanded to encompass a new field.
Choose a Lore skill subcategory. You become trained in it. At
3rd, 7th, and 15th levels, you gain an additional skill increase
you can apply only to the chosen Lore subcategory.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you must select a new subcategory of Lore and you gain
the additional skill increases to that subcategory for the
listed levels.
ADOPTED ANCESTRY FEAT 1
GENERAL
You’re fully immersed in another ancestry’s culture and
traditions, whether born into them, earned through rite of
passage, or bonded through a deep friendship or romance.
Choose a common ancestry or another ancestry to which
you have access. You can select ancestry feats from the
ancestry you chose, in addition to your character’s own
ancestry, as long as the ancestry feats don’t require any
physiological feature that you lack, as determined by the
GM.
ADVANCED FIRST AID FEAT 7
GENERAL HEALING MANIPULATE SKILL
Prerequisites master in Medicine
You use your medical training to ameliorate sickness or
assuage fears. When you use Medicine to Administer First
Aid, instead of Stabilizing a character or Stopping Bleeding,
you can reduce an ally’s frightened or sickened condition by
2, or remove either of those conditions entirely on a critical
success. You can remove only one condition at a time. The
DC for the Medicine check is usually the DC of the effect that
caused the condition.
ALCHEMICAL CRAFTING FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
You can use the Craft activity to create alchemical items.
When you select this feat, you immediately add the formulas
for four common 1st-level alchemical items to your formula
book (page 288).
ANCESTRAL PARAGON FEAT 3
GENERAL
Whether through instinct, study, or magic, you feel a deeper
connection to your ancestry. You gain a 1st-level ancestry feat.
ARCANE SENSE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Arcana
Your study of magic allows you to instinctively sense its
presence. You can cast 1st-rank detect magic at will as an
arcane innate spell. If you’re a master in Arcana, the spell is
heightened to 3rd rank; if you’re legendary, it is heightened
to 4th rank.

ARMOR PROFICIENCY FEAT 1
GENERAL
You become trained in light armor. If you already were
trained in light armor, you gain training in medium armor.
If you were trained in both, you become trained in heavy
armor. If you are at least 13th level, you become an expert in
this armor type.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time, you
become trained in the next type of armor, as detailed above.
ASSURANCE FEAT 1
FORTUNE GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in at least one skill
Even in the worst circumstances, you can perform basic tasks.
Choose a skill you’re trained in. You can forgo rolling a skill
check for that skill to instead receive a result of 10 + your
proficiency bonus (do not apply any other bonuses, penalties,
or modifiers).
Special You can select this feat multiple times. Each time,
choose a different skill and gain the benefits for that skill.
AUTOMATIC KNOWLEDGE FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in a skill with the Recall Knowledge
action, Assurance in that skill
You know basic facts off the top of your head. Choose a skill
you’re an expert in that has the Recall Knowledge action and
for which you have the Assurance feat. You can use the Recall
Knowledge action with that skill as a free action once per
round. If you do, you must use Assurance on the skill check.
Special You can select this feat multiple times, choosing a
different skill each time. You can use Automatic Knowledge
with any skills you have chosen, but you can still use
Automatic Knowledge only once per round.
BARGAIN HUNTER FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy
You can Earn Income (page 228) using Diplomacy, spending
your days hunting for bargains and reselling at a profit. You
can also spend time specifically sniffing out a great bargain
on an item; this works as if you were using Earn Income with
Diplomacy, except instead of gaining money, you purchase
the item at a discount equal to the money you would have
gained, gaining the item for free if your earned income equals
or exceeds its cost. Finally, if you select Bargain Hunter
during character creation at 1st level, you start play with an
additional 2 gp.
BATTLE CRY FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Intimidation
When you roll initiative, you can yell a mighty battle cry and
Demoralize an observed foe as a free action. If you’re legendary
in Intimidation, you can use a reaction to Demoralize your foe
when you critically succeed at an attack roll.
BATTLE MEDICINE [one-action] FEAT 1
GENERAL HEALING MANIPULATE SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Medicine
Requirements You’re holding or wearing a healer’s toolkit
(page 288).
You can patch up wounds, even in combat. Attempt a Medicine
check with the same DC as for Treat Wounds and restore the
corresponding amount of HP; this doesn’t remove the wounded
condition. As with Treat Wounds, you can attempt checks against
higher DCs if you have the minimum proficiency rank. The target
is then immune to your Battle Medicine for 1 day. This does not
make them immune to, or otherwise count as, Treat Wounds.
BIZARRE MAGIC FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Occultism
You can draw upon strange variations in your spellcasting,
whether or not you can cast occult spells. The DCs to Recognize
Spells you cast and Identify Magic you use increase by 5.
BONDED ANIMAL FEAT 2
DOWNTIME GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Nature
You forge strong connections with animals. You can spend 7
days of downtime regularly interacting with a normal animal (not
a companion or other special animal) that is friendly or helpful
to you. After this duration, attempt a Nature check against the
animal’s Will DC. If successful, you bond with the animal. The
animal is permanently bonded to you until you form a bond with
a different animal or do something egregious to break your bond.
A helpful animal is easier to direct, as described on page 242.
If your bonded animal is level –1, it gains the minion trait (page
301), allowing you to command it more efficiently. The maximum
level of creature that can be your minion increases to 3 if you’re a
master in Nature and to 11 if you’re legendary.
Special You can’t have both a bonded animal and an animal
companion (though you can have both a bonded animal and
a pet or familiar).
BREAK CURSE FEAT 7
CONCENTRATE EXPLORATION GENERAL HEALING SKILL
Prerequisites master in Occultism or Religion
You spend 8 hours praying or performing occult rites over
the target, weakening a curse’s power over them. Attempt to
counteract (page 431) the curse, using Occultism or Religion
for your counteract check and half your level rounded up for
the counteract rank. Break Curse only takes 10 minutes of
prayer and rites if you are legendary in Occultism or Religion.
BREATH CONTROL FEAT 1
GENERAL
You can breathe even in hazardous or sparse air. You can hold
your breath for 25 times as long as usual before suffocating. You
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws against inhaled
threats, such as inhaled poisons, and if you roll a success on
such a saving throw, you get a critical success instead.

CANNY ACUMEN FEAT 1
GENERAL
Your avoidance or observation is beyond the ken of most in
your profession. Choose Fortitude saves, Reflex saves, Will
saves, or Perception. You become an expert in your choice. At
17th level, you become a master in your choice.
CAT FALL FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Acrobatics
Your catlike aerial acrobatics allow you to cushion your falls.
Treat falls as 10 feet shorter. If you’re an expert in Acrobatics,
treat falls as 25 feet shorter and 50 feet if you’re a master. If
you’re legendary in Acrobatics, you always land on your feet
and don’t take damage, regardless of the distance of the fall.
CHARMING LIAR FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Deception
Your charm allows you to win over those you lie to. When
you get a critical success using the Lie action, the target’s
attitude toward you improves by one step, as though you’d
succeeded at using Diplomacy to Make an Impression. This
works only once per conversation, and if you critically
succeed against multiple targets using the same result, you
choose one creature’s attitude to improve. You must be lying
to impart seemingly important information, inflate your
status, or ingratiate yourself, which trivial or irrelevant lies
can’t achieve.
CLOUD JUMP FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Athletics
You unparalleled athletic skill allows you to jump impossible
distances. Triple the distance you Long Jump (so you could
jump 60 feet on a successful DC 20 check). When you High
Jump, use the calculation for a Long Jump but don’t triple
the distance.
You can jump a distance greater than your Speed by
spending additional actions when you Long Jump or High
Jump. For each additional action spent, add your Speed to
the limit on how far you can Leap.
COMBAT CLIMBER FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Athletics

Your techniques allow you to fight as you climb. You’re not off-
guard while Climbing and can Climb with a hand occupied. You

must still use another hand and both legs to Climb.
COMMUNAL CRAFTING FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Crafting
You can have other PCs help you Craft an item, under your
direction. A helper PC rolls a check with a skill in which
they’re trained. The skill must be Crafting or another skill
relevant to the item, as determined by the GM. For example,
a PC might use Religion to help you Craft an item with the
divine trait or Warfare Lore to help you Craft a weapon. Your
roll still determines whether you successfully create the item.
Any helper’s roll contributes toward reducing the cost of raw
materials using the numbers from the Earn Income table on
page 229; this uses the ally PC’s proficiency rank in the skill
and their level – 1 for their level.
Helping PCs must accompany you throughout the Craft
activity (preventing them from pursuing other downtime
activities) or the benefit is lost. The GM might determine
that only a certain number of PCs can help depending on the
circumstances.
Communal Crafting also allows you to take the role of a
helper when someone else is crafting, provided they accept
your help.
CONFABULATOR FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Deception
Even when caught in falsehoods, you pile lie upon lie. Reduce
the circumstance bonus a target gains for your previous
attempts to Create a Diversion or Lie to it from +4 to +2. If
you’re a master in Deception, reduce the bonus to +1, and if
you’re legendary, your targets don’t get these bonuses at all.
CONTINUAL RECOVERY FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Medicine
You zealously monitor a patient’s progress to administer
treatment faster. When you Treat Wounds, your patient
becomes immune for only 10 minutes instead of 1 hour. This
applies only to your Treat Wounds activities, not any other the
patient receives.
COURTLY GRACES FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Society
You were raised among the nobility or have learned proper
etiquette and bearing, allowing you to present yourself as a
noble and play games of influence and politics. Unless you
are intentionally presenting yourself differently, anyone
who speaks with you will assume you are a noble or closely
associated with the nobility (such as a prominent servant).
You can use Society to Make an Impression on a noble, as
well as with Impersonate to pretend to be a type of noble
or a specific individual noble. If you use the normal skills in
those situations, you receive a +1 circumstance bonus to the
check instead.
CRAFT ANYTHING FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Crafting
You can find ways to craft just about anything, despite
restrictions. As long as you have the appropriate Crafting skill
feat (such as Magical Crafting for magic items) and meet the

item’s level and proficiency requirements, you ignore just about
any other requirement, such as being of a specific ancestry or
providing spells. If a requirement adds to the item’s cost, you
must still pay it (including castings of spells that themselves
have a cost). You can’t ignore requirements of special items that
have exclusive means of access and Crafting, such as artifacts.
The GM decides whether you can ignore a requirement.
DIEHARD FEAT 1
GENERAL
It takes more to kill you than most. You die from the dying
condition at dying 5, rather than dying 4.
DIVINE GUIDANCE FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Religion
You’re so immersed in divine scripture that you find meaning
and guidance for any situation in your texts. Spend 10 minutes
Deciphering Writing on religious scriptures of your deity
or philosophy while thinking about a particular problem or
conundrum you face, and then attempt a Religion check (DC
determined by the GM). If you succeed, you unearth a relevant
passage, parable, or aphorism that can help you move forward
or change your thinking to help solve your conundrum.
DUBIOUS KNOWLEDGE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in a skill with the Recall Knowledge
action
You’re a treasure trove of information, but not all of it comes
from reputable sources. When you fail (but don’t critically
fail) a Recall Knowledge check using any skill, you learn the
correct answer and an erroneous answer, but you don’t have
any way to differentiate which is which. This can occur as
not knowing something is significant, but not whether it’s
good or bad.
EXPEDITIOUS SEARCH FEAT 7
GENERAL
Prerequisites master in Perception
You have a system that lets you search at great speed, finding
details and secrets twice as quickly as others can. When
Searching, you take half as long as usual to Search a given
area. This means that while exploring, you double the Speed
you can move while ensuring you’ve Searched an area before
walking into it (up to half your Speed). If you’re legendary in
Perception, you instead Search areas four times as quickly.
EXPERIENCED PROFESSIONAL FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Lore
You carefully safeguard your professional endeavors to
prevent disaster. When you use Lore to Earn Income, if you roll
a critical failure, you instead get a failure. If you’re an expert
in Lore, you gain twice as much income from a failed check to
Earn Income, unless it was originally a critical failure.
EXPERIENCED SMUGGLER FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Stealth
You often smuggle things past the authorities. When the GM
rolls your Stealth check to see if a passive observer notices a
small item you’ve concealed, the GM uses the number rolled
or 10—whichever is higher—as the result of your die roll,
adding it to your Stealth modifier to determine your Stealth
check result. If you’re a master in Stealth, the GM uses the
number rolled or 15, and if you’re legendary in Stealth, you
automatically succeed at hiding a small concealed item from
passive observers. This provides no benefits when a creature
attempts a Perception check while actively searching you for
hidden items.
EXPERIENCED TRACKER FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Survival
Tracking is second nature to you, and when necessary you
can follow a trail without pause. You can Track while moving
at full Speed by taking a –5 penalty to your Survival check.
If you’re a master in Survival, you don’t take the –5 penalty.
If you’re legendary in Survival, you no longer need to roll a
new Survival check every hour when tracking, though you
still need to roll whenever there are significant changes in
the trail.

FASCINATING PERFORMANCE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Performance
When you Perform, compare your result to the Will DC of one
observer. If you succeed, the target is fascinated by you for 1
round. If the observer is in a situation that demands immediate
attention, such as combat, you must critically succeed to fascinate
it and the Perform action gains the incapacitation trait. You must
choose which creature you’re trying to fascinate before you roll
your check, and the target is then temporarily immune for 1 hour.
If you’re an expert in Performance, you can fascinate up to
four observers; if you’re a master, you can fascinate up to 10
observers; and if you’re legendary, you can fascinate any number
of observers at the same time.
FAST RECOVERY FEAT 1
GENERAL
Prerequisites Constitution +2
Your body quickly bounces back from afflictions. You regain
twice as many Hit Points from resting. Each time you succeed
at a Fortitude save against an ongoing disease or poison, you
reduce its stage by 2, or by 1 against a virulent disease or poison.
Each critical success you achieve against an ongoing disease or
poison reduces its stage by 3, or by 2 against a virulent disease
or poison. In addition, you reduce the severity of your drained
condition by 2 when you rest for a night instead of by 1.
FEATHER STEP FEAT 1
GENERAL
Prerequisites Dexterity +2
You step carefully and quickly. You can Step into difficult
terrain.
FLEET FEAT 1
GENERAL
You move more quickly on foot. Your Speed increases by 5
feet.
FOIL SENSES FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Stealth
You are adept at foiling creatures’ special senses and
cautious enough to safeguard against them at all times.
Whenever you use the Avoid Notice, Hide, or Sneak actions,
you are always considered to be taking precautions against
special senses (see the Detecting with Other Senses sidebar
on page 433).
FORAGER FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Survival
While using Survival to Subsist, if you roll any result worse
than a success, you get a success. On a success, you can
provide subsistence living for yourself and four additional
creatures, and on a critical success, you can take care of twice
as many additional creatures. You can choose to support half
the number of creatures with a comfortable living.
Increase the number of additional creatures you feed on a
success to eight if you’re an expert in Survival, 16 if you’re a
master, and 32 if you’re legendary.
GLAD-HAND FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Diplomacy
First impressions are your strong suit. When you meet
someone in a casual or social situation, you can immediately
attempt a Diplomacy check to Make an Impression on that
creature rather than needing to converse for 1 minute. If you
fail, you can engage in 1 minute of conversation and attempt
a new check at the end of that time rather than accepting the
failure or critical failure result.
GROUP COERCION FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
You can strong-arm people effectively, even when you don’t
have them isolated. When you Coerce, you can compare your
Intimidation check result to the Will DCs of up to five targets
instead of one.
It’s possible to get a different degree of success for each
target. The number of targets you can Coerce in a single
action increases to 10 if you’re an expert, 25 if you’re a
master, and 50 if you’re legendary.

GROUP IMPRESSION FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy
When you Make an Impression, you can compare your
Diplomacy check result to the Will DCs of up to 10 targets
you conversed with, with no penalty. The number of targets
increases to 20 if you’re an expert, 50 if you’re a master, and
100 if you’re legendary.
HEFTY HAULER FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You can carry more than your frame implies. Increase your
maximum and encumbered Bulk limits by 2.
HOBNOBBER FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy
You are skilled at learning information through conversation.
The Gather Information exploration activity takes you half
as long as normal (typically reducing the time to 1 hour).
If you’re a master in Diplomacy and roll a critical failure
to Gather Information, you get a failure instead. There
is still no guarantee that a rumor you learn with Gather
Information is accurate.
IMPECCABLE CRAFTING FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Crafting, Specialty Crafting
You craft flawless creations with great efficiency. Whenever you
roll a success at a Crafting check to make an item of the type you
chose with Specialty Crafting, you get a critical success instead.
IMPRESSIVE PERFORMANCE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Performance
Your performances inspire admiration and win you fans. You can
Make an Impression using Performance instead of Diplomacy. If
you spend at least 10 minutes performing in front of an audience,
you can Make an Impression targeting up to 10 members of the
audience who were there for the whole performance, without
taking the normal penalty. The number of targets increases to
20 for a 1-hour performance and 50 for a 2-hour performance.
INCREDIBLE INITIATIVE FEAT 1
GENERAL
You react more quickly than others can. You gain a +2
circumstance bonus to initiative rolls.
INCREDIBLE INVESTITURE FEAT 11
GENERAL
Prerequisites Charisma +3
You have an incredible ability to invest more magic items.
Increase your limit on invested items from 10 to 12.
Investing worn magic items is explained on page 219 of
GM Core.
INTIMIDATING GLARE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
You can Demoralize with a mere glare. When you do,
Demoralize loses the auditory trait and gains the visual trait,
and you don’t take a penalty if the creature doesn’t understand
your language.
INTIMIDATING PROWESS FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites Strength +3, expert in Intimidation
In situations where you can physically menace the target
when you Coerce or Demoralize, you gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to your Intimidation check and you ignore the penalty
for not sharing a language. If your Strength modifier is +5
or higher and you are a master in Intimidation, this bonus
increases to +2.
INVENTOR FEAT 2
DOWNTIME GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Crafting
You are a genius at Crafting, easily able to determine how things
are made and create new inventions. You can spend downtime
to invent a common formula that you don’t know. This works
just like the Craft activity: you spend half the Price of the
formula up front, attempt a Crafting check, and on a success
either finish the formula by paying the difference or work for
longer to decrease the Price. The difference is that you spend
the additional time in research, design, and development,
rather than in creating an item. Once it’s complete, you add the
new formula you invented to your formula book.
The GM might allow you to invent uncommon or rare
formulas, typically with an increased DC. You need the
Alchemical Crafting feat to invent alchemical formulas and the
Magical Crafting feat to invent magical formulas.
KIP UP [free-action] FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Acrobatics
You stand up. This movement doesn’t trigger reactions.
LASTING COERCION FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Intimidation
When you successfully Coerce someone, the maximum time
they comply increases to a week, still determined by the GM.
If you’re legendary, the maximum increases to a month.
LEGENDARY CODEBREAKER FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Society
Your skill with languages and codes is so great that you can
decipher information with little more than a quick read through
a text. You can Decipher Writing using Society while reading
at normal speed. If you slow down and spend the full amount
of time that’s ordinarily required and roll a success, you get

a critical success; if you critically succeed while spending
the normal amount of time, you gain a nearly word-for-word
understanding of the document.
LEGENDARY LINGUIST FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Society, Multilingual
You’re so skilled with languages you can create a pidgin
instantly. You can always talk to any creature that has a
language—even a language you don’t know—by creating a new
pidgin language that uses simplified terms and conveys basic
concepts. To do so, you must first understand at least what
medium of communication the creature uses (speech, sign
language, and so on).
LEGENDARY MEDIC FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Medicine
You’ve discovered medical breakthroughs or techniques that
achieve miraculous results. Once per day for each target, you
can spend 1 hour treating that target and attempt a Medicine
check to remove a disease or the blinded, deafened, doomed,
or drained condition. Use the DC of the disease or of the spell
or effect that created the condition. If the effect’s source is an
artifact, above 20th level, or similarly powerful, increase the
DC by 10.
LEGENDARY NEGOTIATION [three-actions] FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Diplomacy
You can negotiate incredibly quickly in adverse situations.
You attempt to Make an Impression and then Request
your opponent cease their current activity and engage in
negotiations. You take a –5 penalty to your Diplomacy check.
Generally, the DC of this check is the creature’s Will DC,
although your GM may modify it based on the situation. Some
creatures may be unable to stop regardless of their personal
desires, and even those who agree to parley might ultimately
find your arguments lacking and return to violence.
LEGENDARY PERFORMER FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Performance, Virtuosic Performer
Your fame has spread throughout the lands. Creatures
who have any listed skill in Society have heard of you and
usually have an attitude toward you one step better than
normal, depending on your reputation and the creature’s
disposition. For instance, if you’re well-known for cruel and
demanding behavior, creatures might be intimidated by you,
rather than be friendly toward you. When you Earn Income
with Performance, you attract higher-level audiences than
your location would allow, as audiences flock to see you. For
instance, rulers and angels might travel to your small tower in
the woods to hear you perform. Typically, this increases the
audiences available to your level or by two levels, whichever
is higher.
LEGENDARY PROFESSIONAL FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Lore
Your fame has spread throughout the lands (for instance, if
you have Warfare Lore, you might be a legendary general or
tactician). This works as Legendary Performer above, except
you gain higher-level jobs when you Earn Income with Lore.
LEGENDARY SNEAK FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Stealth, Swift Sneak
You’re always sneaking unless you choose to be seen, even
when there’s nowhere to hide. You can Hide and Sneak even
without cover or being concealed. When you employ an
exploration tactic other than Avoiding Notice, you also gain
the benefits of Avoiding Notice unless you choose not to. See
page 438 for more information about exploration tactics.
LEGENDARY SURVIVALIST FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Survival
You can survive indefinitely without food or water and can
endure severe, extreme, and incredible cold and heat without
taking damage from doing so.
LEGENDARY THIEF FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Thievery, Pickpocket
Your ability to Steal defies belief. You can attempt to Steal
something that is actively wielded or that would be extremely
noticeable or time consuming to remove (like worn shoes or
armor). You must do so slowly and carefully, spending at least
1 minute (and significantly longer for items that are normally
time consuming to remove, like armor). Throughout this
duration you must have some means of staying hidden, such as
the cover of darkness or a bustling crowd. Even if you succeed,
if the item is extremely prominent—like a suit of full plate
armor—onlookers will quickly notice it’s gone after you steal it.
LENGTHY DIVERSION FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Deception
When you critically succeed to Create a Diversion, you continue
to remain hidden after the end of your turn. This effect lasts for
an amount of time that depends on the diversion and situation,
as determined by the GM (minimum 1 additional round).
LIE TO ME FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Deception
You can use Deception to weave traps to trip up anyone trying
to deceive you. If you can engage in conversation with someone
trying to Lie to you, use your Deception DC if it is higher than
your Perception DC to determine whether they succeed. This
doesn’t apply if you don’t have a back-and-forth dialogue, such
as when someone attempts to Lie during a long speech.

MAGICAL CRAFTING FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Crafting
You can Craft magic items, though some have other requirements,
as listed in GM Core. When you select this feat, you gain formulas
for four common magic items of 2nd level or lower.
MAGICAL SHORTHAND FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion
Learning spells comes easily to you. When you succeed at
Learning a Spell, it takes 10 minutes regardless of the spell’s
rank. If you would succeed on the check, you critically succeed
instead. If you fail, you can try again after a week or after you
gain a level, whichever is first.
You can use downtime to learn and inscribe new spells. This
works as if you were using Earn Income with the tradition’s
associated skill, but instead of gaining money, you choose a
spell available to you to learn and gain a discount on learning
it, learning it for free if your earned income equals or exceeds
its cost.
MONSTER CRAFTING FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Survival
You can use the parts of monsters to aid in crafting. You
can use the body of a monster to help Craft items, using
Survival instead of Crafting for the Craft activity when you
do so. If parts of the monster’s body are valuable, you can
expend them toward the item’s raw material cost as well.
(The GM makes the determination if the monster’s entry
doesn’t list any valuable materials from its body.)
If you spend additional days working on the item, reduce
the Price using the monster’s level instead of your own.
Certain items may require specific creatures in their Craft
requirement.
MULTILINGUAL FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Society
You easily pick up new languages. You learn two new
languages, chosen from common languages, uncommon
languages, and any others you have access to. You learn an
additional language if you are or become a master in Society
and again if you are or become legendary.
Special You can select this feat multiple times. Each time, you
learn additional languages.
NATURAL MEDICINE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Nature
You can apply natural cures to heal your allies. You can use
Nature instead of Medicine to Treat Wounds, including higher
Nature proficiency letting you attempt more difficult checks. It
doesn’t replace Medicine for uses of the skill other than Treat
Wounds or for feat prerequisites.
If you’re in the wilderness, you might have easier access
to fresh ingredients, allowing you to gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to your check to Treat Wounds using Nature, subject to
the GM’s determination.
NIMBLE CRAWL FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Acrobatics
You can Crawl incredibly swiftly—up to half your Speed,
rather than 5 feet. If you’re a master in Acrobatics, you can

Crawl at full Speed, and if you’re legendary, you aren’t off-
guard while prone.

NO CAUSE FOR ALARM [three-actions] FEAT 1
AUDITORY CONCENTRATE EMOTION GENERAL LINGUISTIC MENTAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy
You attempt to reduce panic. Attempt a Diplomacy check,
comparing it to the Will DC of creatures in a 10-foot emanation
around you who are frightened. Each of them is temporarily
immune for 1 hour.
Critical Success Reduce the creature’s frightened value by 2.
Success Reduce the creature’s frightened value by 1.
ODDITY IDENTIFICATION FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Occultism
When you become aware of a magical effect or see a spell
being cast, you can immediately determine if it twists
minds (with the mental trait), fights against fortune (with
the fortune or misfortune trait), or reveals secrets (with
the detection, prediction, revelation, or scrying traits). At
the GM’s discretion, similar effects can also fall into these
categories. When you Identify Magic or Recall Knowledge
to learn more about these effects, you can always use
Occultism without penalty and gain a +2 circumstance
bonus.
PET FEAT 1
GENERAL
You have a pet—a Tiny animal of a type you choose, such
as a cat, bird, or rodent. It has the minion trait, meaning it
gains 2 actions during your turn if you use the Command an
Animal action to command it; this replaces the usual effects
of Command an Animal, and you don’t need to attempt a
Nature check. A pet can’t make Strikes.
Level Your pet’s level is equal to yours.
Modifiers and AC Your pet’s save modifiers and AC are
equal to yours before applying circumstance or status
bonuses or penalties. It uses 3 + your level as its modifier
for Perception, Acrobatics, and Stealth, and just your
level as its modifier for other skill checks. It doesn’t have
or use its own attribute modifiers and can never benefit
from item bonuses.
Hit Points Your pet has 5 Hit Points per level.
Senses Your pet has low-light vision and can gain additional
senses from pet abilities.

Speed Your pet has a Speed of 25 feet. You can choose to
instead have an aquatic pet, which breathes in water
instead of air and has the aquatic trait, no land Speed, and
a swim Speed of 25 feet.
Pet Abilities When you gain your pet, choose two of the
following abilities. If your pet is an animal that naturally has
one of these abilities (for instance, an owl has a fly Speed),
you must select that ability. Your pet can’t be an animal that
naturally has more pet abilities than the maximum. In some
cases, the GM might add some familiar abilities described
on pages 212–213 to the pet abilities you can choose.
• Amphibious It gains the amphibious trait, allowing it to
breathe in both air and water, and has both a land Speed
and a swim Speed, each equal to its highest land Speed or
swim Speed.
• Burrower It gains a burrow Speed of 5 feet, allowing it to
dig Tiny holes.
• Climber It gains a climb Speed of 25 feet.
• Darkvision It gains darkvision.
• Echolocation Your pet can use hearing as a precise sense
within 20 feet.
• Fast Movement Increase one of the pet’s Speeds from 25
feet to 40 feet.
• Flier It gains a fly Speed of 25 feet.
• Manual Dexterity It can use up to two of its limbs as if
they were hands to perform manipulate actions.
• Scent Your pet can use scent as an imprecise sense within
30 feet
• Tough Your pet’s max HP increase by 2 per level.
Special You can gain a new pet by retraining this feat,
releasing any previous pet you have. If you later gain a
familiar or other companion that uses the Pet feat, you can
immediately retrain this feat.
PICKPOCKET FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Thievery
You can Steal or Palm an Object that’s closely guarded, such as
in a pocket, without taking the –5 penalty. You can’t steal objects
that would be extremely noticeable or time consuming to remove
(like worn shoes or armor or actively wielded objects). If you’re a
master in Thievery, you can attempt to Steal from a creature in
combat or otherwise on guard. When doing so, Stealing requires
2 actions instead of 1, and you take a –5 penalty.
PLANAR SURVIVAL FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Survival
You can Subsist using Survival on different planes, even those
without resources or natural phenomena you normally need.
For instance, you can forage for food without penalty even
if the plane lacks food that could normally sustain you. A
success on your check to Subsist also prevents damage done
by the plane to you and anyone else you support with Subsist.
This applies only to damage dealt by the general conditions of
the plane, not smaller hazards.
POWERFUL LEAP FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Athletics
You can jump 5 feet up with a vertical Leap without making a
High Jump. You also increase the horizontal distance when you
Leap, including as part of a High Jump or Long Jump, by 5 feet.
PRESCIENT CONSUMABLE FEAT 7
GENERAL
Prerequisites Prescient Planner
You can predict which consumables you might need in advance.
When using Prescient Planner, you can procure a consumable
item from your backpack, instead of a piece of adventuring
gear. The consumable item must still be common with a level
no higher than half your level, and its Bulk must be low enough
that carrying it wouldn’t have made you encumbered.
PRESCIENT PLANNER FEAT 3
GENERAL
Cost the Price of the chosen item
Requirements You haven’t used this ability since the last time
you were able to purchase goods.
You regularly create convoluted plans and contingencies, using
your resources to enact them. You take 1 minute to remove
your backpack, then carefully remove an item you hadn’t
previously declared that you purchased—you intuited that you
would come to need the item and purchased it at the latest
opportunity. The item must be a piece of adventuring gear
(from the table on page 291 or other sources of adventuring
gear), and can’t be a weapon, armor, alchemical item, magic
item, or other treasure. It must be common with a level no
higher than half your level, and its Bulk must be low enough
that carrying it wouldn’t have made you encumbered.
QUICK CLIMB FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Athletics
When Climbing, you move 5 more feet on a success and 10 more
feet on a critical success, up to your Speed. If you’re legendary in
Athletics, you gain a climb Speed equal to your Speed.
QUICK COERCION FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
You can bully others with just a few choice implications. You
can Coerce a creature after 1 round of conversation instead of 1
minute. You still can’t Coerce a creature in the midst of combat,
or without engaging in a conversation.
QUICK DISGUISE FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Deception
You can set up a disguise in one-tenth the usual time (generally
1 minute). If you’re a master in Deception, you can create a
full disguise and Impersonate as a 3-action activity. If you’re
legendary, it takes a single action.

QUICK IDENTIFICATION FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism or Religion
You can Identify Magic swiftly. You take only 1 minute when using
Identify Magic to determine the properties of an item, ongoing
effect, or location, rather than 10 minutes. If you’re a master, it
takes a 3-action activity, and if you’re legendary, it takes 1 action.
QUICK JUMP FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You can use High Jump and Long Jump as a single action
instead of 2 actions. If you do, you don’t perform the initial
Stride (nor do you fail if you don’t Stride 10 feet).
QUICK RECOGNITION FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion;
Recognize Spell
You Recognize Spells swiftly. Once per round, you can
Recognize a Spell using a skill in which you’re a master as a
free action.
QUICK REPAIR FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
For you, the Repair activity loses the exploration trait and takes
1 minute instead of 10 minutes. If you’re a master in Crafting, it
takes 3 actions. If you’re legendary, it takes 1 action.
QUICK SQUEEZE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Acrobatics
You Squeeze 5 feet per round (10 feet on a critical success).
If you’re legendary in Acrobatics, you Squeeze at full Speed.
QUICK SWIM FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Athletics
You Swim 5 feet farther on a success and 10 feet farther
on a critical success, to a maximum of your Speed. If you’re
legendary in Athletics, you gain a swim Speed equal to your
Speed.
QUICK UNLOCK FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Thievery
You can Pick a Lock using 1 action instead of 2.
QUIET ALLIES FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Stealth
You’re skilled at moving with a group. When you are Avoiding
Notice and your allies Follow the Expert, you and those allies
can roll a single Stealth check, using the lowest modifier, instead
of rolling separately. This doesn’t apply for initiative rolls.
RAPID MANTEL FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Athletics
You easily pull yourself onto ledges. When you Grab an Edge,
you can pull yourself onto that surface and stand. You can
use Athletics instead of a Reflex save to Grab an Edge. If you
Climb or Leap to within 5 feet beneath the top of an edge,
you can pull yourself onto the surface and stand as part of
that action.
READ LIPS FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Society
You can read lips of others nearby who you can clearly see.
The language read must be one that you know. When you’re
at your leisure, you can do this automatically. In encounter
mode or when attempting a more difficult feat of lipreading,
you’re fascinated and off-guard during each round in which
you focus on lip movements, and you must succeed at a
Society check (DC determined by the GM) to successfully
read someone’s lips.
RECOGNIZE SPELL [reaction] FEAT 1
GENERAL SECRET SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion
Trigger A creature within line of sight casts a spell that you
don’t have prepared or in your spell repertoire, or a trap or
similar object casts such a spell. You must be aware of
the casting.
If you are trained in the appropriate skill for the spell’s
tradition and it’s a common spell of 2nd rank or lower, you
automatically identify it (you still roll to attempt to get a
critical success, but can’t get a worse result than success). The
highest rank of spell you automatically identify increases to
4 if you’re an expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 10 if you’re
legendary. The GM rolls a secret Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or
Religion check, whichever corresponds to the tradition of the
spell being cast. If you’re not trained in the skill, you can’t get
a result better than failure.
Critical Success You correctly recognize the spell and gain a
+1 circumstance bonus to your saving throw or your AC
against it.
Success You correctly recognize the spell.
Failure You fail to recognize the spell.
Critical Failure You misidentify the spell as another spell
entirely, of the GM’s choice.
RIDE FEAT 1
GENERAL
When you Command an Animal you’re mounted on to take
a move action (such as Stride), you automatically succeed
instead of needing to attempt a check. Any animal you’re
mounted on acts on your turn, like a minion. If you Mount an
animal in the middle of an encounter, it skips its next
turn and then acts on your next turn. Page 301 has
more on minions.

ROBUST RECOVERY FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Medicine
You learned folk medicine to help recover from diseases and
poison, and using it diligently has made you especially resilient.
When you Treat a Disease or a Poison, or someone else uses
one of these actions on you, increase the circumstance bonus
granted on a success to +4, and if the result of the patient’s
saving throw is a success, the patient gets a critical success.
SCARE TO DEATH [one-action] FEAT 15
EMOTION FEAR GENERAL INCAPACITATION SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Intimidation
You can frighten foes so much, they might die. Attempt an
Intimidation check against the Will DC of a living creature
within 30 feet of you that you sense or observe and who
can sense or observe you. If the target can’t hear you or
doesn’t understand the language you are speaking, you
take a –4 circumstance penalty. The creature is temporarily
immune for 1 minute.
Critical Success The target must attempt a Fortitude save
against your Intimidation DC. On a critical failure, it
dies. On any other result, it becomes frightened 2 and
is fleeing for 1 round. The critical failure effect has the
death trait.
Success The target becomes frightened 2.
Failure The target becomes frightened 1.
Critical Failure The target is unaffected.
SCHOOLED IN SECRETS FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Occultism
You notice the signs and symbols that members of
mystery cults and other secret societies use to declare
their affiliation to fellow members. You can use Occultism
in place of Diplomacy to Gather Information about such
groups and in place of Deception to Impersonate a member
of these groups.
If you belong to a secret cult, lodge, sect, or similar
organization, you automatically recognize members of your
group unless they are specifically attempting to conceal
their presence from you. They also recognize your standing
unless you are specifically concealing it.
SEASONED FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Alcohol Lore, Cooking Lore, or Crafting
You’ve mastered the preparation of many types of food and
drink. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to checks to Craft
food and drink, including elixirs if you have Alchemical
Crafting and potions if you have Magical Crafting. If you
are a master in one of the prerequisite skills, this bonus
increases to +2.
SHAMELESS REQUEST FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Requirements master in Diplomacy
You can downplay the consequences or outrageousness of
your requests using sheer brazenness and charm. When
you Request something, you reduce any DC increases for
making an outrageous request by 2, and if you roll a critical
failure for your Request, you get a failure instead. While
this means you can never cause your target to reduce their
attitude toward you by making a Request, they eventually
tire of requests, even though they still have a positive
attitude toward you.
SHIELD BLOCK [reaction] FEAT 1
GENERAL
Trigger While you have your shield raised, you would take
physical damage (bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing) from
an attack.
You snap your shield in place to ward off a blow. Your shield
prevents you from taking an amount of damage up to the
shield’s Hardness. You and the shield each take any remaining
damage, possibly breaking or destroying the shield.

SIGN LANGUAGE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Society
You learn the sign languages associated with the languages
you know, allowing you to sign and understand signs. Sign
languages typically require both hands to convey more
complex concepts, and they are visual rather than auditory.
Sign language is difficult to understand during combat due
to the level of attention needed, unlike basic gestures like
pointing at a foe to suggest a target. Sign language is hard to
use in areas of low visibility, just like speech is difficult in a
noisy environment.
SKILL TRAINING FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites Intelligence +1
You become trained in the skill of your choice.
Special You can select this feat multiple times, choosing a new
skill to become trained in each time.
SLIPPERY SECRETS FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Deception
You elude and evade attempts to uncover your true nature or
intentions. When a spell or magical effect tries to read your
mind, detect whether you are lying, or reveal your identity,
you can attempt a Deception check against the spell or effect’s
DC. If you succeed, the effect reveals nothing.
SPECIALTY CRAFTING FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
Your training focused on Crafting one particular kind of
item. Select one of the specialties listed below; you gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Crafting checks to Craft items of that
type. If you are a master in Crafting, this bonus increases to +2.
If it’s unclear whether the specialty applies, the GM decides.
Some specialties might apply only partially. For example, if you
were making a morningstar and had specialty in woodworking,
the GM might give you half your bonus because the item
requires both blacksmithing and woodworking.
Specialty Applicable Items
Alchemy* Alchemical items such as elixirs
Artistry Fine art, including jewelry
Blacksmithing Durable metal goods, including metal armor
Bookmaking Books and paper
Glassmaking Glass, including glassware and windows
Leatherworking Leather goods, including leather armor
Pottery Ceramic goods
Shipbuilding Ships and boats
Stonemasonry Stone goods and structures
Tailoring Clothing
Weaving Textiles, baskets, and rugs
Woodworking Wooden goods and structures
* Requires Alchemical Crafting to Craft.
STEADY BALANCE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Acrobatics
You can keep your balance easily, even in adverse conditions.
Whenever you roll a success using the Balance action, you get
a critical success instead. You’re not off-guard while attempting
to Balance on narrow surfaces and uneven ground. Thanks to
your incredible balance, you can attempt an Acrobatics check
instead of a Reflex save to Grab an Edge.
STREETWISE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Society
You know about life on the streets and feel the pulse of your
local settlement. You can use your Society modifier instead
of your Diplomacy modifier to Gather Information. In any
settlement you frequent regularly, you can use the Recall
Knowledge action with Society to know the same sorts of
information that you could discover with Diplomacy to Gather
Information. The DC is usually significantly higher, but you
know the information without spending time gathering it. If
you fail to recall the information, you can still subsequently
attempt to Gather Information normally.
STUDENT OF THE CANON FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Religion
You’ve researched many faiths enough to recognize notions
about them that are unlikely to be true. If you roll a critical failure
at a Religion check to Decipher Writing of a religious nature or
to Recall Knowledge about the tenets of faiths, you get a failure
instead. When attempting to Recall Knowledge about the tenets
of your own faith, if you roll a failure, you get a success instead,
and if you roll a success, you get a critical success instead.
SUBTLE THEFT FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Thievery
When you successfully Steal something, observers (creatures
other than the creature you stole from) take a –2 circumstance
penalty to their Perception DCs to detect your theft.
Additionally, if you first Create a Diversion using Deception,
taking a single Palm an Object or Steal action doesn’t end your
undetected condition.
SURVEY WILDLIFE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Survival
You can study details in the wilderness to determine the presence
of nearby creatures. You can spend 10 minutes assessing the area
around you to find out what creatures are nearby, based on nests,
scat, and marks on vegetation. Attempt a Survival check against a
DC determined by the GM based on how obvious the signs are. On
a success, you can attempt a Recall Knowledge check with a –2
penalty to learn more about the creatures just from these signs. If
you’re a master in Survival, you don’t take the penalty.

SWIFT SNEAK FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Stealth
You can move your full Speed when you Sneak. You can
use Swift Sneak while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or
Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding
movement type.
TERRAIN EXPERTISE FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Survival
Your experience in navigating a certain type of terrain
makes you supremely confident while doing so. You gain
a +1 circumstance bonus to Survival checks in one of the
following types of terrain, chosen when you select this feat:
aquatic, arctic, desert, forest, mountain, plains, sky, swamp,
or underground.
Special You can select this feat more than once, choosing a
different type of terrain each time.
TERRAIN STALKER FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Stealth
Select one type of difficult terrain from the following list:
rubble, snow, or underbrush. While undetected by all
non-allies in that type of terrain, you can Sneak without
attempting a Stealth check as long as you move no more
than 5 feet and do not pass within 10 feet of an enemy
during your movement.
During exploration, this also allows you to automatically
approach within 15 feet of other creatures while Avoiding
their Notice, as long as they aren’t actively Searching or on
guard.
Special You can select this feat multiple times. Each time,
choose a different type of terrain.
TERRIFIED RETREAT FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Intimidation
When you critically succeed at the Demoralize action, if the
target’s level is lower than yours, the target is fleeing for 1
round.
TITAN WRESTLER FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You can attempt to Disarm, Grapple, Reposition, Shove, or
Trip creatures up to two sizes larger than you, or up to three
sizes larger than you if you’re legendary in Athletics.
TOUGHNESS FEAT 1
GENERAL
Your body can withstand more punishment than most
before succumbing. Increase your maximum Hit Points by
your level. You reduce the DC of recovery checks by 1 (page
411).
TRAIN ANIMAL FEAT 1
DOWNTIME GENERAL MANIPULATE SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Nature
You spend time teaching an animal to do a certain action.
You can either select a basic action the animal already knows
how to do (typically those listed in the Command an Animal
action on page 242) or attempt to teach the animal a new
basic action. The GM determines the DC of any check required
and the amount of time the training takes (usually at least a
week). It’s usually impossible to teach an animal a trick that
uses critical thinking. If you’re expert, master, or legendary in
Nature, you might be able to train more unusual creatures, at
the GM’s discretion.
Success The animal learns the action. If it was an action the
animal already knew, you can Command the Animal to take
that action without attempting a Nature check. If it was a
new basic action, add that action to the actions the animal
can take when Commanded, but you must still roll.
Failure The animal doesn’t learn the trick.
TRICK MAGIC ITEM [one-action] FEAT 1
GENERAL MANIPULATE SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion
You examine a magic item you normally couldn’t use in an effort
to fool it and activate it temporarily. For example, this might allow
a fighter to cast a spell from a wand or allow a wizard to cast a
spell that’s not on the arcane list using a scroll. You must know
what activating the item does, or you can’t attempt to trick it.
Attempt a check using the skill matching the item’s magic
tradition, or matching a tradition that has the spell on its list,
if you’re trying to cast a spell from the item. The relevant skills
are Arcana for arcane, Nature for primal, Occultism for occult,
Religion for divine, or any of the four for an item that has the
magical trait and not a tradition trait. The GM determines the
DC based on the item’s level (possibly adjusted depending on
the item or situation).
If you activate a magic item that requires a spell attack
modifier or spell DC and you don’t have the ability to cast spells
of the relevant tradition, use your level as your proficiency
bonus and the highest of your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma
modifiers. If you’re a master in the appropriate skill for the item’s
tradition, you instead use the trained proficiency bonus; if you’re
legendary, you instead use the expert proficiency bonus.
Success For the rest of the current turn, you can spend actions
to activate the item as if you could normally use it.
Failure You can’t use the item or try to trick it again this turn,
but you can try again on subsequent turns.
Critical Failure You can’t use the item, and you can’t try to
trick it again until your next daily preparations.
UNDERWATER MARAUDER FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You’ve learned to fight underwater. You are not off-guard while
in water, and you don’t take the usual penalties for using a
bludgeoning or slashing melee weapon in water.

UNIFIED THEORY FEAT 15
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Arcana
You understand the common underpinnings of the four
traditions of magic and magical essences, allowing you to
understand them all through an arcane lens. Whenever you use
a skill action or a skill feat that requires a Nature, Occultism, or
Religion check, depending on the magic tradition, you can use
Arcana instead. If you would normally take a penalty or have
a higher DC for using Arcana on other magic (such as when
using Identify Magic), you no longer do so.
UNMISTAKABLE LORE FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Lore
You never get information about your areas of expertise wrong.
When you Recall Knowledge using any Lore subcategory in
which you’re trained, if you roll a critical failure, you get a failure
instead. If you’re a master in a Lore subcategory, on a critical
success, you gain even more information or context than usual.
UNTRAINED IMPROVISATION FEAT 3
GENERAL
You’ve learned how to handle situations when you’re out of
your depth. Your proficiency bonus to untrained skill checks
is equal to your level –2. This improves to your level –1 at 5th
level and your full level at 7th level. This doesn’t allow you to
use the skill’s trained actions.
UNUSUAL TREATMENT FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Medicine
Your medical training extends to less obvious conditions.
When you succeed against a DC 20 check to Treat Wounds,
you can also reduce the value of one clumsy, enfeebled, or
stupefied condition on the patient by 1. If you’re able to treat
more than one creature at once, choose only one to gain this
benefit. A creature can benefit from Unusual Treatment only
once per day.
If the condition results from an affliction, the affliction isn’t
cured, though the condition is reduced as long as the affliction
remains at that stage.
If you are a master in Medicine, add the drained condition to
the list of conditions you can remove if you succeed at a DC 30
check. If you are legendary in Medicine, you reduce the chosen
condition by 2 instead of by 1.
VIRTUOSIC PERFORMER FEAT 1
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Performance
You have exceptional talent with one type of performance. You
gain a +1 circumstance bonus when making a certain type of
performance. If you are a master in Performance, this bonus
increases to +2. Select one of the following specialties and apply
the bonus when attempting Performance checks of that type. If
it’s unclear whether the specialty applies, the GM decides.
Specialty Examples
Acting Drama, pantomime, puppetry
Comedy Buffoonery, joke telling, limericks
Dance Ballet, huara, jig, macru
Keyboards Harpsichord, organ, piano
Oratory Epic, ode, poetry, storytelling
Percussion Chimes, drum, gong, xylophone
Singing Ballad, chant, melody, rhyming
Strings Fiddle, harp, lute, viol
Winds Bagpipe, flute, recorder, trumpet
WALL JUMP FEAT 7
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites master in Athletics
You can use your momentum from a jump to propel yourself
off a wall. If you’re adjacent to a wall at the end of a jump
(whether performing a High Jump, Long Jump, or Leap), you
don’t fall as long as your next action is another jump. Your
previous jump gives you momentum, letting you use High
Jump or Long Jump as a single action, but you don’t get to
Stride as part of the activity.
You can use Wall Jump only once in a turn, unless you’re
legendary in Athletics, in which case you can use it as
many times as you can use consecutive jump actions in
that turn.

WARD MEDIC FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Medicine
You’ve studied in large medical wards, treating several patients
at once and tending to all their needs. When you use Treat
Disease or Treat Wounds, you can treat up to two targets. If
you’re a master in Medicine, you can treat up to four targets,
and if you’re legendary, you can treat up to eight targets.
WARY DISARMAMENT FEAT 2
GENERAL SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Thievery
If you trigger a device or set off a trap while disarming it, you
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your AC or saving throw
against the device or trap. This applies only to attacks or
effects triggered by your failed attempt, not to any later ones,
such as additional attacks from a complex trap.
WEAPON PROFICIENCY FEAT 1
GENERAL
You become trained in all martial weapons. If you were already
trained in all martial weapons, you become trained in one
advanced weapon of your choice. If you are at least 11th level,
you also become an expert in these weapons.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time you
do, you become trained in an advanced weapon.